SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
2016 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS
To our Shareholders:
Following record years in 2014 and 2015, 2016 was another record year. It is
remarkable that we were able to sustain, and in some cases, improve upon the dramatic
results achieved in 2015. The foundation was laid with strategic initiatives that
transformed Southwest during the five years ended 2014. Our results were further
boosted by the significant reduction in energy prices, generally range-bound in the
$45-$55 a barrel range for Brent crude oil. The result was another year of record traffic,
record load factors, record revenues, record profits, and a record year-end stock price
(LUV). For the second year in a row, and for only the second time in our history, our
annual pre-tax return on invested capital (ROIC)1 was 30 percent or better. It was our 44th
consecutive year of profitability, a record unmatched in the domestic airline industry, and
a continued display of our leadership in corporate America.
Our 2016 net income was a record $2.24 billion, or $3.55 per diluted share, 2.9
percent and 8.6 percent higher than 2015, respectively. Excluding special items1, our
record 2016 earnings were $2.37 billion, or $3.75 per diluted share, 0.6 percent and 6.5
percent higher than a year ago, respectively.
Total operating revenues topped $20 billion for the first time, up 3.1 percent
versus a year ago. On the heels of 2015’s healthy year-over-year available seat mile
(capacity) growth of 7.2 percent, our 2016 year-over-year capacity growth slowed to 5.7
percent, as several of our strategic growth opportunities were realized (Dallas Love Field;
Washington Reagan National; Houston Hobby International). Our goal was to grow
revenues in line, or better, than capacity versus a year ago. Operating revenues per
available seat mile fell slightly, by 1.6 percent, due to significant low fare competition and
industry domestic capacity growth outpacing the sluggish economic growth. As a result,
our average passenger fare fell 3.7 percent versus a year ago. Given that jet fuel prices
fell further, year-over-year, the net profit result was still quite exceptional.
We were not planning to add any new cities in 2016; however, as I reported in last
year’s Annual Report to Shareholders, slots became available in Long Beach, California,
and flights resumed between the United States and Cuba. We reacted swiftly to these
opportunities and launched service to Long Beach Airport; Varadero, Cuba; Havana,
Cuba (our 100th destination); and Santa Clara, Cuba. We serve Long Beach with
short-haul flights in California and Cuba from Ft. Lauderdale and Tampa. We also
launched service from Los Angeles International Airport to Cancun, Puerto Vallarta, and
Los Cabos, Mexico. Additional routes and frequencies within our existing network
rounded out the balance of our 2016 expansion. It was another successful year in
network development.
1 See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and related reconciliations included in the accompanying
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, for additional information on ROIC and special items.
Our operating expenses grew slightly faster than capacity. Average 2016 jet fuel
prices declined 7.2 percent on an “economic basis” from a year ago2. Operating
expenses per available seat mile (CASM) increased 0.4 percent, year-over-year.
Excluding fuel and oil expense and special items, CASM increased just 1.6 percent,
year-over-year.
Our cash flow from operations was a record $4.29 billion, and our free cash flow3
was a record $2.25 billion. Our financial position strengthened, sustaining our solid
investment grade credit ratings with all three credit rating agencies. Debt to total capital
(including aircraft leases) declined to 32.5 percent as of year-end 2016. Our liquidity
increased, as well, with year-end cash and short-term investments of $3.3 billion plus our
fully-available $1.0 billion bank line of credit. We returned a record $1.97 billion to
Shareholders in 2016, through $222 million in dividends and $1.75 billion in share
repurchases. In May 2016, in recognition of our exceptionally strong results, our Board of
Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program and increased the quarterly
dividend by 33 percent to $.10 per share.
We ended the year with 723 aircraft in our all-Boeing 737 (B737) fleet. Currently,
our firm aircraft commitments and options would grow the fleet to 750 airplanes by yearend
2018. We have several significant fleet events planned for 2017. First, we are the
launch customer with Boeing for the B737-8 (MAX) aircraft. We currently plan to launch
this new airplane in commercial service October 1, 2017, and acquire a total of 14 for the
year. Second, we plan to retire the 79 remaining B737-300 (Classic) airplanes in our fleet
between now and October 1, 2017. Finally, we plan to acquire 39 new B737-800 (NG)
aircraft this year. Due to the accelerated retirement of the Classics, we plan to end 2017
with 703 aircraft in our fleet, down from the 723 to start this year. By the end of 2018, all
retired Classics will have been replaced with new deliveries from Boeing. The Classics
have served us well, but with Boeing’s support, along with expected reduced
maintenance, fuel consumption, and out-of-service time, we expect a substantial financial
benefit, prospectively, once the Classics are retired. This is an important part of our fleet
modernization initiative, which has been underway since 2011. It is exciting to see these
long-held plans come together in 2017!
Another long-term effort scheduled to come to fruition in 2017 is the completion
and deployment of our new Amadeus Altéa reservation system on May 9, 2017. Our
current reservation system dates back to the 1980s. It, too, has served us well, but it is
not well suited to our current or future needs. The effort to replace it is significant and
strategic, and has been years in the making. We announced the first phase of the
deployment into production in December 2016. The project is on track, and we look
forward to the next important milestone in this effort. Once implemented, the system
provides the foundation for future planned releases with further enhancements. We
expect to derive benefits ranging from improved Customer Experiences to improved
revenue management. We look forward to giving our Employees better tools that allow us
to better serve our Customers and Shareholders.
2 See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and related reconciliation included in the accompanying Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, for additional information on economic fuel costs.
3Free cash flow is calculated as operating cash flows of $4.3 billion less capital expenditures of $2.0 billion less assets
constructed for others of $109 million plus reimbursements for assets constructed for others of $107 million.
Another significant long-term effort scheduled for 2017 is the completion of a new
five-gate international terminal at the Ft Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (FLL),
slated for June 2017. Coincident with the opening is the launch of new international
service at FLL by Southwest Airlines. Currently, we serve just The Bahamas and Cuba
from FLL, but plan to add service to Belize, Jamaica, and Mexico along with our newest
destination, Grand Cayman. This is a much-anticipated and much-needed enhancement
to our FLL franchise.
Overall, our outlook continues to be upbeat. Once again, we are off to a very
strong start to the year, in terms of operational reliability, Customer satisfaction, and
travel demand. There appear to be high expectations for tax reform, regulatory reform,
and air traffic control modernization. In turn, there appear to be high expectations for
domestic GDP growth. We welcome all of that. In the meantime, while economic growth
is still lackluster, energy prices are stable at moderate prices, and travel demand is
strong in a very competitive environment. We are positioned and poised to compete
vigorously and well. With the fleet plan I outlined previously, we currently plan to grow our
capacity approximately 3.5 percent in 2017, split roughly two-thirds to our domestic
network and the remainder to international growth. In addition to adding Grand Cayman
to our route map, we are consolidating our Ohio cities by closing operations at AkronCanton
Airport and adding flights at nearby Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. We
are scheduled to begin service at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport
(which, admittedly, has been conspicuous in its absence from our expansive route
network), and close operations at nearby Dayton International Airport to accommodate it.
Much has changed in these Ohio airports, competitively, over the last five to six years,
and these moves will position us better. It is never easy to close a location, but we will
continue to offer service to Customers in those two markets via Cleveland and Cincinnati.
We have lived through a remarkable period, be it the last 5 years, 10 years, or
more than 15 since 9/11. Our People have worked extraordinarily hard to weather the
storms, transform Southwest, and still serve our Customers and Shareholders well. They
have done that. From 2001 through 2012, there were some tough, lean years. But, our
People never faltered. No annual losses. No bankruptcies. No layoffs. No massive
reduction in service. Instead, Southwest stayed profitable, job secure, and growing—
throughout. Now, our People, our Customers, and our Shareholders are reaping the
benefits from those years of hard work. Because of our People, Southwest is wellprepared
to compete aggressively for Customers’ business and loyalty. Southwest is
committed to provide Shareholder returns. And, Southwest is well-prepared for tougher
times, whether it be from economic weakness, energy price spikes, or brutal competition.
Our People have us better prepared than ever, in fact. And, we have opportunities to
further improve our already excellent operations, our outstanding Customer Service, and
our expansive route map.
As I said last year, our Purpose is to connect People to what’s important in their
lives with friendly, reliable, low-cost air travel. We take great care of our Employees, so
they can take great care of our Customers. If we do both well—keep our service levels
high and our fares low—we can take great care of our Shareholders. And, we have.
This is now the 23rd consecutive year that Southwest has been named to
Fortune’s list of World’s Most Admired Companies, coming in at #8. We’re proud of that.
And, as America’s largest airline in terms of originating domestic passengers4, we aspire
to more—to become the world’s most loved, most flown, and most profitable airline. Our
Vision is audacious, but I believe in our People. They are Warriors!
Please join me in thanking all 53,536 Employees for their hard work and superb
results!
Sincerely,
Gary C. Kelly
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
March 24, 2017
4Based on data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), as of September 30, 2016.
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
Í ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016
or
‘ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934
For the transition period from to
Commission File No. 1-7259
Southwest Airlines Co.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
TEXAS 74-1563240
(State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization) Identification No.)
P.O. Box 36611
Dallas, Texas 75235-1611
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (214) 792-4000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
Title of Each Class Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock ($1.00 par value) New York Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes Í No ‘
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ‘ No Í
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes Í No ‘
Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes Í No ‘
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Í
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer Í Accelerated filer ‘ Non-accelerated filer ‘ Smaller reporting company ‘
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ‘ No Í
The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $24,270,482,662 computed by
reference to the closing sale price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2016, the last trading day of the registrant’s
most recently completed second fiscal quarter.
Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of the close of business on February 3, 2017: 615,254,524 shares
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Definitive Proxy Statement for the Company’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 17, 2017, are incorporated
into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
Item 1. Business 1
Item 1A. Risk Factors 22
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 30
Item 2. Properties 31
Item 3. Legal Proceedings 32
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 34
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities 37
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 40
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42
Liquidity and Capital Resources 58
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Contingent Liabilities and
Commitments 60
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 63
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 71
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 77
Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Balance Sheet 77
Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Income 78
Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 79
Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity 80
Southwest Airlines Co. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 81
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 82
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 124
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 124
Item 9B. Other Information 125
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 126
Item 11. Executive Compensation 126
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters 126
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 127
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 127
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 128
Signatures 134
PART I
Item 1. Business
Company Overview
Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company” or “Southwest”) operates Southwest Airlines, a major
passenger airline that provides scheduled air transportation in the United States and near-international
markets. For the 44th consecutive year, the Company was profitable, earning $2.2 billion in net
income.
Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas
cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. At December 31, 2016, Southwest operated a total of
723 Boeing 737 aircraft and served 101 destinations in 40 states, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and eight near-international countries: Mexico, Jamaica, The
Bahamas, Aruba, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Belize, and Cuba.
The Company added its first three destinations in Cuba during 2016, with service to Varadero and
Santa Clara from Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport and service to Havana from both
Fort Lauderdale and Tampa International Airport. The Company also expanded its domestic footprint
during 2016, with the commencement of service at Long Beach Airport, the Company’s fifth service
point in the L.A. Basin and tenth airport in California.
Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), as
of June 30, 2016, Southwest was the largest domestic air carrier in the United States, as measured by
the number of domestic originating passengers boarded.
Industry
The airline industry has historically been an extremely volatile industry subject to numerous
challenges. Among other things, it has been cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital
intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline
industry has also been particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as acts of terrorism, poor
weather, and natural disasters.
The U.S. airline industry benefited from moderate economic growth during 2016 and was further aided
by low fuel prices. In recent years, the U.S. airline industry, including Southwest, has increased
available seat miles (also referred to as “capacity,” an available seat mile is one seat, empty or full,
flown one mile and is a measure of space available to carry passengers in a given period), and has
increased the number of seats per trip (or “gauge”) through slimline seat retrofits and the use of larger
aircraft.
Company Operations
Route Structure
General
Southwest principally provides point-to-point service, rather than the “hub-and-spoke” service
provided by most major U.S. airlines. The hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline’s
1
operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by
providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. By not concentrating operations through one
or more central transfer points, Southwest’s point-to-point route structure has allowed for more direct
nonstop routing than hub-and-spoke service. Approximately 76 percent of the Company’s Customers
flew nonstop during 2016, and, as of December 31, 2016, Southwest served 657 nonstop city pairs.
Southwest’s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent,
conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers 20 weekday
roundtrips between Dallas Love Field and Houston Hobby, 13 weekday roundtrips between Burbank
and Oakland, 12 weekday roundtrips between San Diego and San Jose, 10 weekday roundtrips
between Denver and Chicago Midway, and eight weekday roundtrips between Phoenix and Las Vegas.
Southwest complements its high-frequency short-haul routes with long-haul nonstop service between
markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and Orlando, San Diego and Baltimore,
Houston and New York LaGuardia, and Oakland and Baltimore. During 2016, the Company continued
to incorporate the Boeing 737-800 aircraft into its fleet, which offers significantly more Customer
seating capacity than Southwest’s other aircraft. This has enabled the Company to more economically
serve long-haul routes, as well as high-demand, slot-controlled, and gate-restricted airports, by adding
seats for such routes without increasing the number of flights (a “slot” is the right of an air carrier,
pursuant to regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), to operate a takeoff or landing
at a specific time at certain airports). For 2016, the Company’s average aircraft trip stage length was
760 miles, with an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours, as compared with an average aircraft
trip stage length of 750 miles and an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours in 2015.
With the addition of Long Beach Airport to the Company’s route map in 2016, the Company added
four weekday flights from Long Beach to Oakland, which, in turn, has brought connectivity between
Long Beach and 20 cities on the Southwest network across the Pacific Northwest and mid-America.
Based on the most recent data available from the DOT, as of June 30, 2016, Southwest offers more
seats than any other carrier each day to, from, and within California.
The Company has announced plans to add service, beginning in June 2017, to Cincinnati/Northern
Kentucky International Airport and, subject to requisite government approvals, to Owen Roberts
International Airport in Grand Cayman. The Company’s addition of service to Cincinnati/Northern
Kentucky International Airport, scheduled for June 2017, will give the Company’s Customers access to
a full complement of the top 50 markets across the 48 contiguous United States.
International Service
Southwest Airlines launched international service in 2014, ending 2016 with service to 14 international
destinations through 13 international gateway cities within the 48 contiguous United States.
During 2016, the Company commenced international service out of Los Angeles International Airport by
introducing service to Liberia, Costa Rica, and later to three airports in Mexico’s coastal regions: Cancun,
San Jose del Cabo/Los Cabos, and Puerto Vallarta. Also during 2016, the Company began scheduled
international service from Fort Lauderdale with daily service to Nassau, Bahamas. The Company has also
announced its first ever international service from Oakland International Airport and San Diego
International Airport, its 14th and 15th international gateway cities within the 48 contiguous United States,
with daily flights from Oakland to San Jose del Cabo/Los Cabos and Puerto Vallarta scheduled to begin in
February 2017 and from San Diego to San Jose del Cabo/Los Cabos scheduled to begin in April 2017.
2
In connection with the scheduled opening of a new five-gate international concourse at
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (FLL) in June 2017, the Company has announced a
significantly expanded international flight schedule for South Florida to a total of eight international
nonstop destinations. In addition to existing service, beginning in June 2017, the Company is
scheduled to offer new daily international nonstop service from Fort Lauderdale to Montego Bay,
Jamaica; Belize City, Belize; and Cancun, Mexico, and subject to requisite government approvals,
Grand Cayman. Additional information regarding the Company’s involvement with construction of the
new concourse at FLL is provided below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Approximately $383 million, approximately $287 million, and approximately $226 million of the
Company’s operating revenues in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, were attributable to foreign
operations. The remainder of the Company’s operating revenues, approximately $20.0 billion,
approximately $19.5 billion, and approximately $18.4 billion in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively,
were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s operating revenues in 2014 included the
operating revenues of AirTran Airways (“AirTran”). AirTran’s final passenger service occurred on
December 28, 2014, and it has been integrated into Southwest. The Company’s assets are not allocated
to a geographic area because the Company’s tangible assets primarily consist of flight equipment, the
majority of which are interchangeable and are deployed systemwide, with no individual aircraft
dedicated to any specific route or region.
Cost Structure
A key component of the Company’s business strategy is its focus on cost discipline and profitably
charging low fares. Adjusted for stage length, the Company has lower unit costs, on average, than the
majority of major domestic carriers. The Company’s strategy includes the use of a single aircraft type,
the Boeing 737, the Company’s operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and its highly
productive Employees. Southwest’s use of a single aircraft type allows for simplified scheduling,
maintenance, flight operations, and training activities. Southwest’s point-to-point route structure
includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field,
Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester,
Oakland, San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are
typically less congested than other airlines’ hub airports, which has contributed to Southwest’s ability
to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they
are on the ground. This, in turn, has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would
otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (headcount per aircraft).
The Company’s focus on controlling costs also includes ongoing work to reduce fuel consumption.
Although 2016 fuel prices were lower than 2015 fuel prices, Fuel and oil expense remained the
Company’s second largest operating cost. Furthermore, as evidenced by the table below, energy prices
3
can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. The table below shows the Company’s
average cost of jet fuel for each year beginning in 2003 and during each quarter of 2016.
Year
Cost
(Millions)
Average
Cost Per
Gallon
Percentage of
Operating
Expenses
2003 $ 920 $ 0.80 16.5%
2004 $ 1,106 $ 0.92 18.1%
2005 $ 1,470 $ 1.13 21.4%
2006 $ 2,284 $ 1.64 28.0%
2007 $ 2,690 $ 1.80 29.7%
2008 $ 3,713 $ 2.44 35.1%
2009 $ 3,044 $ 2.12 30.2%
2010 $ 3,620 $ 2.51 32.6%
2011 $ 5,644 $ 3.19 37.7%
2012 $ 6,120 $ 3.30 37.2%
2013 $ 5,763 $ 3.16 35.1%
2014 $ 5,293 $ 2.93 32.3%
2015 $ 3,616 $ 1.90 23.0%
2016 $ 3,647 $ 1.82 21.9%
First Quarter 2016 $ 852 $ 1.80 21.9%
Second Quarter 2016 $ 903 $ 1.75 22.0%
Third Quarter 2016 $ 941 $ 1.83 21.2%
Fourth Quarter 2016 $ 952 $ 1.90 22.5%
The Company focuses on reducing fuel consumption and improving fuel efficiency through fleet
modernization and other fuel initiatives. For example, during 2016, the Company continued to replace
its older aircraft with newer aircraft that are less maintenance intensive and more fuel efficient. The
Company also announced its intent to accelerate the retirement of its 737-300 aircraft to no later than
third quarter 2017, when it is scheduled to take delivery of its first, more fuel-efficient, Boeing 737-8
aircraft. The Company’s fleet composition and delivery schedules are discussed in more detail below
under “Properties - Aircraft.” The Company has also undertaken a number of other fuel conservation
initiatives which are discussed in detail under “Regulation - Environmental Regulation.”
To illustrate the results of the Company’s efforts to reduce fuel consumption, the table below sets forth
the Company’s available seat miles produced per fuel gallon consumed over the last five years:
Year ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Available seat miles per fuel
gallon consumed 74.4 73.9 72.8 71.7 69.4
The Company also enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant
increases in fuel prices. The Company’s fuel hedging activities, as well as the risks associated with
high and/or volatile fuel prices, are discussed in more detail below under “Risk Factors,”
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and
Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4
Salaries, wages, and benefits expense constituted approximately 41 percent of the Company’s
operating expenses during 2016 and was the Company’s largest operating cost. The Company’s ability
to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased
labor costs have negatively impacted the Company’s low-cost competitive position. The Company’s
labor costs, and risks associated therewith, are discussed in more detail below under “Risk Factors”
and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Fare Structure
General
Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features competitive, unrestricted, unlimited,
everyday coach fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest bundles fares
into three major categories: “Wanna Get Away®,” “AnytimeSM,” and “Business Select®,” with the goal
of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer. All fare products include the privilege
of two free checked bags (weight and size limits apply). In addition, regardless of the fare product,
Southwest does not charge fees for changes to flight reservations.
• “Wanna Get Away” fares are generally the lowest fares and are typically subject to advance
purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable but, subject to compliance with Southwest’s
No Show policy, funds may be applied to future travel on Southwest without a change fee.
Southwest’s No Show policy applies if a Customer has booked a nonrefundable fare
anywhere in his/her itinerary and that portion of the flight is not used and not canceled or
changed by the Customer at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure. In such event,
subject to certain exceptions, all unused funds on the full itinerary will be forfeited, and the
remaining reservation will be canceled. The intent of the No Show policy is to promote
Customer behavior that will enable Southwest to re-sell the open seat prior to departure.
• “Anytime” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may also be applied toward future
travel on Southwest. Anytime fares also include a higher frequent flyer point multiplier under
Southwest’s Rapid Rewards® frequent flyer program than do Wanna Get Away fares. The
Company’s frequent flyer program is discussed below under “Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer
Program.”
• “Business Select” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may be applied toward
future travel on Southwest. Business Select fares also include additional perks, when
available, such as priority boarding in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group
“A,” a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares (including twice as
many points per dollar spent as compared with Wanna Get Away fares), “Fly By®” priority
security and/or ticket counter access in participating airports, and one complimentary adult
beverage coupon for the day of travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).
Ancillary Services
The Company offers ancillary service offerings such as Southwest’s EarlyBird Check-In® and
transportation of pets and unaccompanied minors, in accordance with Southwest’s respective policies.
EarlyBird Check-In provides Customers with automatic check-in before general boarding positions
become available, improving Customers’ seat selection options (priority boarding privileges are
5
already a benefit of being an “A-List” tier member under the Company’s Rapid Rewards Frequent
Flyer Program). Southwest’s Pet Policy provides Customers an opportunity to bring a small cat or dog
into the aircraft cabin. Southwest also has an unaccompanied minor travel policy to address the
administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers.
When available, Southwest also sells, at the airport, open priority boarding positions in the first
15 positions in its “A” boarding group.
Southwest offers inflight satellite-based WiFi service on all of its 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft,
representing over 87 percent of Southwest’s fleet. Southwest’s Customers with small portable
electronic devices are able to utilize the airline’s onboard WiFi from gate-to-gate when traveling on a
Southwest WiFi-enabled aircraft. Southwest was the first carrier to offer gate-to-gate connectivity.
Southwest’s onboard entertainment options on WiFi-enabled aircraft for viewing on Customers’
personal wireless devices include free access to Southwest’s live and on-demand television product.
The television product currently consists of nearly 20 live channels and up to 75 on-demand recorded
episodes from popular television series. Due to licensing restrictions, free live TV may not be available
onboard WiFi-enabled international flights. In late 2016, the Company entered into new WiFi
connectivity agreements designed to yield greater WiFi bandwidth available to Customers on WiFiequipped
aircraft beginning in mid-2017. By the end of 2017, the Company expects to operate a
100 percent WiFi-equipped fleet. Southwest also provides movies-on-demand, and also offers a
Messaging-only option, including all WiFi-enabled stops and connections. The Messaging service
allows access to iMessage and pre-downloaded apps for Viber and WhatsApp. Customers do not have
to purchase WiFi to access television offerings, movies-on-demand, or the Messaging-only service.
Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program
Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program enables program members (“Members”) to earn
points for every dollar spent on Southwest fares. The amount of points earned under the program is
based on the fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning
more points than lower fare products (e.g., Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a
points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by
the fare class multiplier. Likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based
on the fare and fare class purchased. Under the program (i) Members are able to redeem their points for
every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire so
long as the Member has points-earning activity during the most recent 24 months.
Under the program, Members continue to accumulate points until the time they decide to redeem them.
As a result, the program provides Members significant flexibility and options for earning and
redeeming rewards. For example, Members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as
A-List and Companion Pass faster) by purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have significant
flexibility in redeeming points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower
fare (including many fare sales) ticket by redeeming fewer points or by being able to redeem more
points and book at the last minute if seats are still available for sale. Members can also earn points
through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners (which include, for example, car rental
agencies, hotels, restaurants, and retailers), as well as by using Southwest’s co-branded Chase® Visa
credit card. In addition, holders of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card are able to redeem
their points for items other than travel on Southwest, such as international flights on other airlines,
cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. In addition to earning points for
6
revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Members also have the ability
to purchase, gift, and transfer points, as well as the ability to donate points to selected charities.
Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program features tier and Companion Pass programs for the
most active Members, including “A-List” and “A-List Preferred” status. Both A-List and A-List
Preferred Members enjoy benefits such as “Fly By®” priority check-in and security lane access, where
available, as well as dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings bonus on eligible revenue
flights (25 percent for A-List and 100 percent for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred
Members enjoy free inflight WiFi on equipped flights. Members who attain A-List or A-List Preferred
status receive priority boarding privileges for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at
least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding pass number available (generally, an
“A” boarding pass). Members who fly 100 qualifying one-way flights or earn 110,000 qualifying
points in a calendar year automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited free
travel for one year to any destination available on Southwest for a designated companion of the
qualifying Member. The Member and designated companion must travel together on the same flight.
Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program has been designed to drive more revenue by
(i) bringing in new Customers, including new Members, as well as new holders of Southwest’s
co-branded Chase Visa credit card; (ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and
(iii) strengthening the Company’s Rapid Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and retail partnerships.
The program continues to exceed the Company’s expectations with respect to the number of Members
added, the amount spent per Member on airfare, the number of flights taken by Members, the number
of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card holders added, the number of points sold to business
partners, and the number of frequent flyer points purchased by Members. During 2015, the Company
entered into an amended co-branded credit card agreement with Chase Bank USA, N.A. Additional
information regarding this amended co-branded credit card agreement, including the effect of the
resulting change in accounting methodology, is provided below under “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
For the Company’s 2016 consolidated results, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately
8.3 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 12.7 percent of revenue passenger miles flown.
For the Company’s 2015 consolidated results, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately
7.3 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 12.0 percent of revenue passenger miles flown.
During 2014, the Company also operated AirTran. AirTran’s final passenger service occurred on
December 28, 2014, and it has been integrated into Southwest. For the Company’s 2014 consolidated
results, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately 6.2 million flight awards,
accounting for approximately 11.0 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. The Company’s
accounting policies with respect to its frequent flyer programs are discussed in more detail in Note 1 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Southwest.com
The Company’s Internet website, Southwest.com®, is the only avenue for Southwest Customers to
purchase and manage travel online. Customers’ trips can be planned and managed directly from the
Southwest.com home page. Southwest.com is designed to help make the Customer’s experience
personal and intuitive with features such as recognizing the Customer’s location to provide relevant
deals, remembering recent searches to make it easy to get to trips of interest, and a calendar view to
7
find the best date to travel for the lowest fare. The “My Account” section of the website provides a
detailed view into a Customer’s travel and loyalty activity. Southwest.com highlights points of
differentiation between Southwest and other air carriers and provides information on the Company’s
fare and ancillary products. In addition, Southwest.com and Swabiz.com (the Company’s business
travel reservation web page) are available in a translated Spanish version, which provides Customers
who prefer to transact in Spanish the same level of Customer Service provided by the English versions
of the websites. Both sites meet Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (2.0, Level AA) in order to
provide an optimal experience for more people with disabilities. Additionally, Southwest offers
Customers a mobile website and apps (iOS and Android) to provide Customers the ability to transact
with Southwest anytime they have access to their mobile device. For the year ended December 31,
2016, approximately 79.1 percent of the Company’s Passenger revenues came through its website
(including revenues from SWABIZ®).
Marketing
During 2016, the Company continued to aggressively market and benefit from Southwest’s points of
differentiation from its competitors. For example, the Company’s TransfarencySM campaign
emphasizes Southwest’s approach to treating Customers fairly, honestly, and respectfully, with its low
fares and no unexpected bag fees, change fees, or hidden fees.
Southwest continues to be the only major U.S. airline that offers to all ticketed Customers up to two
checked bags that fly free (weight and size limits apply). Through both its national and local marketing
campaigns, Southwest has continued to aggressively promote this point of differentiation from its
competitors with its “Bags Fly Free®” message. The Company believes its decision not to charge for
first and second checked bags, as reinforced by the Company’s related marketing, has driven an
increase in the Company’s market share and a resulting net increase in revenues.
Southwest is also the only major U.S. airline that does not charge a fee on any of its fares for a
Customer change in flight reservations. The Company has continued to incorporate this key point of
differentiation in its marketing campaigns. The campaigns highlight the importance to Southwest of
Customer Service by showing that Southwest understands plans can change and therefore does not
charge a change fee. While a Customer may pay a difference in airfare, the Customer will not be
charged a change fee on top of any difference in airfare.
Also unlike most of its competitors, Southwest does not impose additional fees for items such as seat
selection, snacks, curb-side check-in, and telephone reservations. In addition, Southwest allows each
ticketed Customer to check one stroller and one car seat free of charge, in addition to the two free
checked bags.
The Company also continues to promote all of the many other reasons to fly Southwest such as its low
fares, network size, Customer Service, free live television offerings, and its Rapid Rewards frequent
flyer program.
In 2014, the Company launched a new visual expression of its brand - Heart - to symbolize the
Company’s care, trust, and belief in providing exceptional Hospitality, and its Employees’ dedication
to connecting Customers with what is important in their lives. The Company introduced a new Heart
aircraft livery, airport experience, and logo. Aircraft already in the Company’s fleet were scheduled to
receive the newly painted livery within the aircraft’s existing repainting schedule, while new aircraft
have been delivered in the Heart livery. In 2016, the Company unveiled the next phase of the Heart
8
brand with the introduction of its first aircraft with a new Heart cabin interior. The new 737-800
interiors, which will also be included in the Company’s 737-8 aircraft, give Southwest Customers a
look and feel of the future, with bold blue seats and additional seat width and legroom, an adjustable
headrest, enhanced back comfort, and extra room for personal belongings. In addition, in mid-2017,
front-line Employees will begin wearing Employee-designed uniforms that highlight the Company’s
red and blue Heart brand.
Technology Initiatives
The Company has committed significant resources to technology improvements to support its ongoing
operations and initiatives. Of particular significance is the Company’s multi-year project to completely
replace its reservation system. In 2014, the Company launched the Amadeus Altéa reservations
solution to support the Company’s international service. The Company has since begun implementing
Amadeus’ Altéa reservations solution as the Company’s future single reservation system for both
domestic and international reservations. The implementation consists of two foundational releases.
Release 1 was completed in December 2016, and added functionality to enable the sale of domestic
tickets on the new reservation system. Release 2 is expected to be completed on May 9, 2017, and will
add functionality to enable operational capabilities such as passenger check-in and boarding and
baggage check-in on the new reservation system. Subsequent releases will add functionality to enable
revenue enhancements, further schedule optimization, support for international growth, and additional
foundational and operational capabilities.
The Company has also added a new schedule optimization tool to assist with creating flight schedules
that better reflect Customer demand. With this new schedule optimization tool, the Company is able to
better optimize and evaluate a higher volume of potential schedules.
The Company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources towards, among other
things, (i) the continued development of systems to improve both revenue management and network
optimization capabilities, (ii) the aforementioned replacement of Southwest’s existing domestic
reservation system with the comprehensive Amadeus Altéa reservations solution, and (iii) tools to
improve operational management.
Regulation
The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government, and there are a
significant number of governmental agencies and legislative bodies that have the ability to directly or
indirectly affect the Company and/or the airline industry financially and/or operationally. Examples of
regulations affecting the Company and/or the airline industry, imposed by several of these
governmental agencies and legislative bodies, are discussed below.
Economic and Operational Regulation
Consumer Protection Regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation
The DOT regulates economic operating authority for air carriers and consumer protection for airline
passengers. The FAA, a sub-agency of the DOT, regulates aviation safety. The DOT may impose civil
penalties on air carriers for violating its regulations.
9
To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is required to hold both a
Certificate of Public Convenience & Necessity from the DOT and an Air Carrier Operating Certificate
from the FAA. A Certificate of Public Convenience & Necessity is unlimited in duration, and the
Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its
territories and possessions. Additional DOT authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from
certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own
aircraft or via code-sharing with another airline. Exemptions granted by the DOT to serve international
markets are generally limited in duration and are subject to periodic renewal requirements. The DOT
also has jurisdiction over international tariffs and pricing in certain markets. The DOT may revoke a
certificate or exemption, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with federal aviation
statutes, regulations, orders, or the terms of the certificate itself.
The DOT’s consumer protection and enforcement activities relate to areas such as unfair and deceptive
practices and unfair competition by air carriers, deceptive airline advertising (concerning, e.g., fares,
ontime performance, schedules, and code-sharing), and violations of rules concerning denied boarding
compensation, ticket refunds, and baggage liability requirements. The DOT is also charged with
prohibiting discrimination by airlines against consumers on the basis of race, religion, national origin,
or sex.
Under the above-described authority, the DOT has adopted so-called “Passenger Protection Rules,”
which address a wide variety of matters, including flight delays on the tarmac, chronically delayed
flights, denied boarding compensation, and advertising of airfares, among others. Under the Passenger
Protection Rules, U.S. passenger airlines are required to adopt contingency plans that include the
following: (i) assurances that no domestic flight will remain on the airport tarmac for more than three
hours before beginning to return to the gate and that no international flight will remain on the tarmac at
a U.S. airport for more than four hours before beginning to return to the gate, unless the pilot-incommand
determines there is a safety-related or security-related impediment to deplaning passengers,
or air traffic control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or permitting passengers to
disembark elsewhere would significantly disrupt airport operations; (ii) an assurance that air carriers
will provide adequate food and potable drinking water no later than two hours after the aircraft leaves
the gate (in the case of departure) or touches down (in the case of arrival) if the aircraft remains on the
tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude such
service; and (iii) an assurance of operable lavatories, as well as adequate medical attention, if needed.
Air carriers are required to publish their contingency plans on their websites.
The Passenger Protection Rules also subject airlines to potential DOT enforcement action for unfair
and deceptive practices in the event of chronically delayed domestic flights (i.e., domestic flights that
operate at least ten times a month and arrive more than 30 minutes late more than 50 percent of the
time during that month). In addition, airlines are required to (i) display ontime performance on their
websites; (ii) adopt customer service plans, publish those plans on their website, and audit their own
compliance with their plans; (iii) designate an employee to monitor the performance of their flights;
(iv) provide information to passengers on how to file complaints; and (v) respond in a timely and
substantive fashion to consumer complaints.
The Passenger Protection Rules also require airlines to (i) pay up to $1,350 in compensation to each
passenger denied boarding involuntarily from an oversold flight; (ii) refund any checked bag fee for
permanently lost luggage; (iii) prominently disclose all potential fees for optional ancillary services on
their websites; and (iv) refund passenger fees paid for ancillary services if a flight cancels or oversells
and a passenger is unable to take advantage of such services.
10
The Passenger Protection Rules also require that (i) advertised airfares include all governmentmandated
taxes and fees; (ii) passengers be allowed to hold a reservation for up to 24 hours without
making a payment; (iii) passengers be allowed to cancel a paid reservation without penalty for 24 hours
after the reservation is made, as long as the reservation is made at least seven days in advance of travel;
(iv) fares may not increase after purchase; (v) baggage fees must be disclosed to the passenger at the
time of booking; (vi) the same baggage allowances and fees must apply throughout a passenger’s trip;
(vii) baggage fees must be disclosed on e-ticket confirmations; and (viii) passengers must be promptly
notified in the event of delays of more than 30 minutes or if there is a cancellation or diversion of their
flight.
In November 2016, the DOT finalized an additional “Passenger Protection Rule.” The new rule is
intended to make the DOT’s rankings of airline performance (such as mishandled bags and ontime
performance) more accurate. To do so, the DOT removed the assumption that every passenger checks a
bag, and will now calculate mishandled bags per overall checked bags, rather than per enplaned
passengers. The new rule also expands the pool of air carriers that must report performance data to the
DOT’s Bureau of Transportation Statistics by requiring reporting air carriers to include data for their
domestic scheduled flights operated by their code-share partners.
The DOT has expressed its intent to aggressively investigate alleged violations of its consumer
protection rules. Airlines that violate any DOT regulation are subject to potential fines of up to $32,140
per occurrence.
The Company is also monitoring other potential rulemakings that could impact its business such as a
DOT proposed rule to require air carriers to publicly disclose the revenues received from the sale of
ancillary services to passengers. In addition, in December 2016, the DOT issued a proposed rule to
require sellers of air transportation to provide adequate advance notice to passengers if the carrier
operating the flight allows passengers to make voice calls using mobile wireless devices onboard
aircraft. The DOT is also considering whether such advance notice is sufficient, or whether to prohibit
airlines from allowing voice calls via passenger mobile wireless devices on domestic and/or
international flights. Further, in December 2016, the DOT announced the outlines of a proposed rule
that the DOT intends to publish in July 2017 for the purpose of improving accessibility of lavatories on
single-aisle aircraft and of in-flight entertainment. The DOT’s announcement contemplates that the
proposed rule will require both short-term and long-term measures be taken to fully address the
challenges persons with mobility impairments face when traveling on single-aisle aircraft, including
the eventual requirement that accessible lavatories be available for individuals who use wheelchairs.
The future proposed rule is also expected to address the improvement of accessibility of in-flight
entertainment by requiring certain movies and shows displayed on such aircraft to be captioned to
provide access to deaf and hard of hearing passengers. In addition, audio described entertainment
would be available to enable people who are blind to listen to the visual narration of movies and
shows.
Aviation Taxes and Fees
The statutory authority for the federal government to collect most types of aviation taxes, which are
used, in part, to finance programs administered by the FAA, must be periodically reauthorized by the
U.S. Congress. In 2012, Congress adopted the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, which
extended most commercial aviation taxes through September 30, 2015. In September 2015 and again in
July 2016, Congress extended the expiration date, which is currently September 30, 2017. Congress is
11
expected to try to enact a new FAA reauthorization bill in 2017, which may make substantive changes
with respect to aviation taxes (including, possibly, airport-assessed passenger facility charges) and/or
FAA offices and programs that are financed through aviation tax revenue. Congress must either adopt a
new FAA reauthorization bill or pass a “status quo” extension by September 30, 2017; otherwise, a
lapse in the statutory authority could affect the airlines’ and passengers’ respective tax burdens, as well
as impact the FAA’s ability to fund airport grants and regulate the airline industry.
In addition to FAA-related taxes, there are additional federal taxes related to the U.S. Department of
Homeland Security. These taxes do not need to be reauthorized periodically. Congress has set the
Transportation Security Fee paid by passengers at $5.60 per one-way passenger trip. In December
2015, Congress enacted another statute that indexes immigration and customs fees to inflation,
beginning in 2016. These two fees are paid by inbound international passengers and are used to support
the operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”). Finally, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service published a final regulation in October 2015
that modifies international agriculture inspection fees. Under this rule, which was effective
December 28, 2015, the per-passenger agriculture inspection fee is $5.00 and the per-commercial
aircraft fee is $225.00.
In 2017, in addition to FAA reauthorization legislation, Congress may consider comprehensive tax
reform legislation, which could result in a lower corporate tax rate, the elimination of certain tax
deductions and preferences, and impacts to the international tax environment. Grants to airports and/or
airport bond financing may also be affected through future legislation, which could result in higher
fees, rates, and charges at many of the airports the Company serves.
Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation
The FAA has the authority to regulate safety aspects of civil aviation operations. Specifically, the
Company and its third-party service providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to
aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications,
flight training personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The FAA, acting through its own
powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney, has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition
and collection of fines for violation of the FAA regulations.
To address compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain the Air Carrier
Operating Certificate and other certificates, approvals, and authorities. These certificates, approvals,
and authorities are subject to suspension or revocation for cause.
The FAA has rules in effect with respect to flight, duty, and rest regulations. Among other things, the
rules require a ten hour minimum rest period prior to a pilot’s flight duty period; mandate that a pilot
must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep within the rest period; and impose pilot
“flight time” and “duty time” limitations based upon report times, the number of scheduled flight
segments, and other operational factors. The rules affect the Company’s staffing flexibility, which
could impact the Company’s operational performance, costs, and Customer Experience.
In addition to its role as safety regulator, the FAA also operates the nation’s air traffic control (“ATC”)
system and continues its lengthy and ongoing effort to implement a multi-faceted, next generation
ATC system (“NextGen”). The Air Traffic Organization (“ATO”) is the operational arm of the FAA.
The ATO is responsible for providing safe and efficient air navigation services to all of the
12
United States and large portions of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans and the Gulf of Mexico. The
Company is subject to any operational changes imposed by the FAA/ATO as they relate to the
“NextGen” program, as well as the day-to-day management of the air traffic control system. The FAA
reauthorization discussed above under “Aviation Taxes and Fees,” as well as the annual appropriation
legislation that will fund the DOT and the FAA in federal fiscal years 2017 and 2018, could include
provisions impacting future FAA safety-related activities and ATO operations in 2017 and beyond.
The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to
occupational safety and health, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Food and
Drug Administration regulations.
Security Regulation
Pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (“ATSA”), the Transportation Security
Administration (the “TSA”), a division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, is responsible
for certain civil aviation security matters. ATSA and subsequent TSA regulations and procedures
implementing ATSA address, among other things, (i) flight deck security; (ii) the use of federal air
marshals onboard flights; (iii) airport perimeter access security; (iv) airline crew security training;
(v) security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees, and vendors; (vi) training and
qualifications of security screening personnel; (vii) provision of passenger data to CBP; and
(viii) background checks. Under ATSA, substantially all security officers at airports are federal
employees, and significant other elements of airline and airport security are overseen and performed by
federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal
air marshals. TSA personnel and TSA-mandated security procedures can affect the Company’s
operations, costs, and Customer experience. For example, as part of its security measures, the TSA
regulates the types of liquid items that can be carried onboard aircraft. In addition, as part of its Secure
Flight program, the TSA requires airlines to collect a passenger’s full name (as it appears on a
government-issued ID), date of birth, gender, and Redress Number (if applicable). Airlines must
transmit this information to Secure Flight, which uses the information to perform matching against
terrorist watch lists. After matching passenger information against the watch lists, Secure Flight
transmits the matching results back to airlines. This serves to identify individuals for enhanced security
screening and to prevent individuals on watch lists from boarding an aircraft. It also helps prevent the
misidentification of passengers who have names similar to individuals on watch lists. The TSA has
also implemented enhanced security procedures as part of its enhanced, multi-layer approach to airport
security, including physical pat down procedures, at security checkpoints. Such enhanced security
procedures have raised privacy concerns by some air travelers.
The Company, in conjunction with the TSA and CBP, participates in TSA PreCheck™, a prescreening
initiative that allows a select group of low risk passengers to move through security
checkpoints with greater efficiency and ease when traveling. Eligible passengers may use dedicated
screening lanes at certain airports the Company serves for screening benefits, which include leaving on
shoes, light outerwear, and belts, as well as leaving laptops and permitted liquids in carryon bags.
The Company also participates in the TSA Known Crewmember® program, which is a risk-based
screening system that enables TSA security officers to positively verify the identity and employment
status of flight-crew members. The program expedites flight crew member access to sterile areas of
airports.
13
The Company works collaboratively with foreign national governments and airports to provide riskbased
security measures at international departure locations.
The Company has filed an application with the Department of Homeland Security for designation
under the Support Anti-Terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (the “SAFETY
Act”). The application is currently under review by the Department of Homeland Security. The
Company’s application for designation is based on certain safety and security procedures put in place
by the Company to date related to the protection of its Employees, Customers, and assets from
terrorists and other criminal activities. If the application for designation is successful, the Company
would be granted certain limitations of liability for claims arising out of an “act of terrorism” as
defined under the SAFETY Act.
The Company has also made significant investments to address the effect of security regulations,
including investments in facilities, equipment, and technology to process Customers, checked baggage,
and cargo efficiently; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various
security measures or the lack of TSA resources at certain airports will have on Passenger revenues and
the Company’s costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.
Environmental Regulation
The Company is subject to various federal laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean
Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations govern aircraft drinking water, emissions, and storm water discharges from operations, and
the disposal of materials such as jet fuel, chemicals, hazardous waste, and aircraft deicing fluid.
Additionally, in conjunction with airport authorities, other airlines, and state and local environmental
regulatory agencies, the Company, as a normal course of business, undertakes voluntary investigation
or remediation of soil or groundwater contamination at several airport sites. The Company does not
believe that any environmental liability associated with these airport sites will have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s operations, costs, or profitability, nor has it experienced any such liability in
the past that has had a material adverse effect on its operations, costs, or profitability. Further
regulatory developments pertaining to the control of engine exhaust emissions from ground support
equipment could increase operating costs in the airline industry. The Company does not believe,
however, that pending environmental regulatory developments in this area will have a material effect
on the Company’s capital expenditures or otherwise materially adversely affect its operations,
operating costs, or competitive position.
The federal government, as well as several state and local governments, the governments of other
countries, and the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) are considering
legislative and regulatory proposals and voluntary measures to address climate change by reducing
green-house gas emissions. At the federal level, in July 2016, the Environmental Protection Agency
(the “EPA”) issued a final endangerment finding for greenhouse gas emissions from certain types of
aircraft engines, which the agency determined contribute to the pollution that causes climate change
and endangers public health and the environment. Following this endangerment finding, per the federal
Clean Air Act, the EPA is required to promulgate new regulations for controlling greenhouse gas
emissions from aircraft, including possibly new carbon-efficiency standards on aircraft and engine
manufacturers. The EPA’s endangerment finding preceded an expected agreement reached by the
14
member nations of ICAO. In October 2016, the ICAO Assembly adopted a new “global market-based
measure” framework in an effort to control carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation. The
focal point of this framework is a future carbon offsetting system on aircraft operators designed to cap
the growth of international aviation emissions. Details of this system are expected to be further
developed in 2017 and, assuming the U.S. Government adopts the ICAO framework, this system is
scheduled to be phased-in beginning in 2021. Regardless of the method of regulation, policy changes
with regards to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the
airline industry and, as a result, adversely affect operations.
In addition to climate change, aircraft noise continues to be an environmental focus, especially as the
FAA implements new flight procedures as part of its “NextGen” airspace modernization program
discussed above. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the right, under
certain circumstances, to implement local noise abatement programs, so long as they do not
unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system.
Some airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types
to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types
of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and can limit the ability
of air carriers to expand operations at the affected airports. At the federal level, the FAA is considering
changes to enhance community engagement when developing new flight procedures, and there is a
possibility that Congress may enact legislation in 2017 to address local noise concerns at one or more
commercial airports in the United States.
The Company has undertaken a number of fuel conservation and carbon emission reduction initiatives
such as the following:
• installation of blended winglets, which reduce drag and increase fuel efficiency, on all
Boeing 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft in Southwest’s fleet;
• upgrading of the Company’s 737-800 fleet with newly designed, split scimitar winglets;
• periodic engine washes;
• use of electric ground power for aircraft air and power at the gate and for ground support
equipment at select locations;
• deployment of auto-throttle and vertical navigation to maintain optimum cruising speeds;
• implementation of engine start procedures to support the Company’s single engine taxi
procedures;
• adjustment of the timing of auxiliary power unit starts on originating flights to reduce
auxiliary power unit usage;
• implementation of fuel planning initiatives to safely reduce loading of excess fuel;
• aircraft cabin interior retrofitting to reduce weight;
• reduction of aircraft engine idle speed while on the ground, which also increases engine life;
15
• galley refreshes with dry goods weight reduction;
• Company optimized routes (flying the best wind routes to take advantage of tailwinds or to
minimize headwinds);
• improvements in flight planning algorithms to better match the Company’s aircraft flight
management system (and thereby enabling the Company to fly at the most efficient
altitudes);
• substitution of Pilot and Flight Attendant flight bags with lighter Electronic Flight Bag
tablets; and
• implementation of Real Time Descent Winds (automatic uplinking of up-to-date wind data to
the aircraft allowing crews to time the descent to minimize thrust inputs).
The Company has also participated in Required Navigation Performance (“RNP”) operations as part of
the FAA’s Performance Based Navigation program, which is intended to modernize the U.S. Air
Traffic Control System by addressing limitations on air transportation capacity and making more
efficient use of airspace. RNP combines the capabilities of advanced aircraft avionics, Global
Positioning System (“GPS”) satellite navigation (instead of less precise ground-based navigation), and
new flight procedures to (i) enable aircraft to carry navigation capabilities rather than relying on
airports; (ii) improve operational capabilities by opening up many new and more direct airport
approach paths to produce more efficient flight patterns; and (iii) conserve fuel, improve safety, and
reduce carbon emissions. By the end of 2016, Southwest had conducted approximately 39,000 RNP
approaches, including over 15,000 in 2016. Southwest must rely on RNP approaches published by the
FAA, and the rate of introduction of RNP approaches continues to be slower than expected, with fuel
efficient RNP approaches currently available at only 52 of Southwest’s airports. In addition, even at
airports with approved RNP approaches, the clearance required from air traffic controllers to perform
RNP approaches is sometimes not granted. Southwest continues to work with the FAA to develop
more RNP approaches and to modify air traffic control rules to support greater utilization of RNP.
As part of its commitment to corporate sustainability, the Company has published the Southwest One
ReportTM describing the Company’s sustainability strategies, which include these and other efforts to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address other environmental matters such as energy and water
conservation, waste minimization, and recycling. Information contained in the Southwest One Report
is not incorporated by reference into, and does not constitute a part of, this Form 10-K.
International Regulation
All international air service is subject to certain U.S. federal requirements and approvals, as well as the
regulatory requirements of the appropriate authorities of the foreign countries involved. The Company
has obtained the necessary economic authority from the DOT, as well as approvals required by the
FAA and applicable foreign government entities, to conduct operations, under certain circumstances, to
points outside of the continental United States currently served by the Company. Certain international
authorities and approvals held by the Company are subject to periodic renewal requirements. The
Company requests extensions of such authorities and approvals when and as appropriate. To the extent
the Company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to
serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and/or approvals
from the FAA, as well as any applicable foreign government entity.
16
Certain international route authorities are governed by bilateral air transportation agreements between
the United States and foreign countries. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could
result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of the Company’s existing
international authorities, present barriers to renewing existing or securing new authorities, or otherwise
affect the Company’s international operations. In particular, there is a significant amount of uncertainty
about the future of scheduled commercial flight operations between the United States and Cuba.
Moreover, there could be challenges in expanding the Company’s flight offerings to and from Mexico,
as the Mexican government adjusts to a new bilateral air transport agreement between the
United States and Mexico, which went into effect in August 2016 and represents a significant change
from the prior, more restrictive bilateral agreement. There are also capacity limitations at one or more
Mexican airports, which could impact future service levels. In general, bilateral agreements between
the United States and foreign countries the Company currently serves, or may serve in the future, may
be subject to renegotiation or reinterpretation from time to time. While the U.S. government has
negotiated “open skies” agreements with many countries, which allow for unrestricted access between
the United States and respective foreign destinations, agreements with other countries may restrict the
Company’s entry and/or growth opportunities.
The CBP is the federal agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security charged with facilitating
international trade, collecting import duties, and enforcing U.S. regulations with respect to trade,
customs, and immigration. As the Company expands its international flight offerings, CBP and its
requirements and resources will also become increasingly important considerations to the Company.
For instance, with the exception of flights from a small number of foreign “preclearance” locations,
arriving international flights may only land at CBP-designated airports, and CBP officers must be
present and in sufficient quantities at those airports to effectively process and inspect arriving
international passengers and cargo. Thus, CBP personnel and CBP-mandated procedures can affect the
Company’s operations, costs, and Customer experience. The Company has made and expects to
continue to make significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in
order to improve the Customer experience and to assist CBP with its inspection and processing duties;
however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various CBP measures or the lack
of CBP resources will have on Company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.
Insurance
The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts the Company
deems adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with federal regulations
and certain of the Company’s credit and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage
for public and passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to
aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’ compensation. In addition, the Company carries a
cyber-security insurance policy with regards to data protection and business interruption associated
with both security breaches from malicious parties and from certain system failures.
Through the 2003 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the “Wartime Act”), the
federal government has in the past provided war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers,
including for losses from terrorism, for passengers, third parties (ground damage), and the aircraft hull.
However, since the government-provided supplemental coverage from the Wartime Act was set to
expire during 2014, the Company proactively canceled its government provided war-risk insurance
coverage prior to expiration and purchased war-risk (terrorism) insurance in the commercial insurance
marketplace.
17
Although the Company was able to purchase war-risk (terrorism) insurance via the commercial
insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or
have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not
be adequate to protect the Company’s risk of loss from future acts of terrorism. Further, available
cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more
expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically
been provided and may not be adequate to protect the Company’s risk of loss.
Competition
Competition within the airline industry is intense and highly unpredictable, and Southwest currently
competes with other airlines on virtually all of its scheduled routes. As a result of moderately improved
economic conditions and an increased focus by airlines on costs, the airline industry has become
increasingly competitive in recent years with healthier financial condition and improved profitability.
Key competitive factors within the airline industry include (i) pricing and cost structure; (ii) routes,
frequent flyer programs, and schedules; and (iii) customer service, comfort, and amenities. Southwest
also competes for customers with other forms of transportation, as well as alternatives to travel. In
recent years, the majority of domestic airline service has been provided by Southwest and the other
largest major U.S. airlines, including American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and United Airlines. The
DOT defines major U.S. airlines as those airlines with annual revenues of at least $1 billion; there are
currently 13 passenger airlines offering scheduled service, including Southwest, that meet this
standard.
Pricing and Cost Structure
Pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the availability of fare information
on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and
discounts. Many airlines also continue to introduce new fare products to capture the full spectrum of
price-sensitive travelers. These fare options range from a “basic” entry-level fare product to a
“premium” economy product at a higher price point. Pricing can be driven by a variety of factors. For
example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when
necessary to improve load factors and/or cash flow. In addition, multiple airlines have been able to
reduce fares because they have been able to lower their operating costs as a result of reorganization
within and outside of bankruptcy. Further, some of the Company’s competitors have continued to grow
and modernize their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs
per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile), which in turn
may enable them to lower their fares.
The Company believes its low-cost operating structure continues to provide it with an advantage over
many of its airline competitors by enabling it to continue to charge low fares. However, certain socalled
“ultra low-cost carriers” have surpassed the Company’s cost advantage while continuing to add
aircraft, expand their networks, and add competition to the Company’s routes. Nevertheless, the
Company believes it continues to have a competitive advantage through its differentiation of
Southwest from all of its major competitors by not charging additional fees for items such as first and
second checked bags, flight changes, seat selection, snacks, curb-side check-in, and telephone
reservations.
18
Routes, Frequent Flyer Programs, and Schedules
The Company also competes with other airlines based on markets served, frequent flyer opportunities,
and flight schedules. Some major airlines have more extensive route structures than Southwest,
including more extensive international networks. In addition, many competitors have entered into
significant commercial relationships with other airlines, such as global alliances, code-sharing, and
capacity purchase agreements, which increase the airlines’ opportunities to expand their route
offerings. An alliance or code-sharing agreement enables an airline to offer flights that are operated by
another airline and also allows the airline’s customers to book travel that includes segments on
different airlines through a single reservation or ticket. As a result, depending on the nature of the
specific alliance or code-sharing arrangement, a participating airline may be able to (i) offer its
customers access to more destinations than it would be able to serve on its own, (ii) gain exposure in
markets it does not otherwise serve, or (iii) increase the perceived frequency of its flights on certain
routes. Alliance and code-sharing arrangements not only provide additional route flexibility for
participating airlines, they can also allow these airlines to offer their customers more opportunities to
earn and redeem frequent flyer miles or points. A capacity purchase agreement enables an airline to
expand its route structure by paying another airline (e.g., a regional airline with smaller aircraft) to
operate flights on its behalf in markets that it does not, or cannot, serve itself. The Company continues
to evaluate and implement initiatives to better enable itself to offer additional itineraries.
Customer Service, Comfort, and Amenities
Southwest also competes with other airlines in areas of Customer Service such as ontime performance,
passenger amenities, flight equipment type, and comfort. According to statistics published by the DOT,
Southwest consistently ranks at or near the top among domestic carriers in Customer Satisfaction for
having the lowest Customer complaint ratio. Some airlines have more seating options and associated
passenger amenities than does Southwest, including first-class, business class, and other premium
seating and related amenities. Additionally, some major U.S. airlines, including Southwest, are adding
a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets. Such efforts could provide cost benefits to these
airlines through fleet simplification, improved fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs.
Additionally, such new aircraft could have newer and different passenger amenities than those
contained in the Company’s existing fleet.
Other Forms of Competition
The airline industry is subject to varying degrees of competition from surface transportation by
automobiles, buses, and trains. Inconveniences and delays associated with air travel security measures
can increase surface competition. In addition, surface competition can be significant during economic
downturns when consumers cut back on discretionary spending and fewer choose to fly, or when
gasoline prices are lower, making surface transportation a less expensive option. Because of the
relatively high percentage of short-haul travel provided by Southwest, it is particularly exposed to
competition from surface transportation in these instances. The airline industry is also subject to
competition from alternatives to travel such as videoconferencing and the Internet, which can increase
in the event of travel inconveniences and economic downturns. The Company is subject to the risk that
air travel inconveniences and economic downturns may, in some cases, result in permanent changes to
consumer behavior in favor of surface transportation and electronic communications.
19
Seasonality
The Company’s business is seasonal. Generally, in most markets the Company serves, demand for air
travel is greater during the summer months, and therefore, revenues in the airline industry tend to be
stronger in the second (April 1 - June 30) and third (July 1 - September 30) quarters of the year than in
the first (January 1 - March 31) and fourth (October 1 - December 31) quarters of the year. As a result,
in many cases, the Company’s results of operations reflect this seasonality. Factors that could alter this
seasonality include, among others, the price of fuel, general economic conditions, extreme or severe
weather, fears of terrorism or war, or changes in the competitive environment. Therefore, the
Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire
year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of
future operating results.
Employees
At December 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 53,500 active fulltime equivalent Employees,
consisting of approximately 22,100 flight, 2,900 maintenance, 19,500 ground, Customer, and fleet
service, and 9,000 management, technology, finance, marketing, and clerical personnel (associated
with non-operational departments). Approximately 83 percent of these Employees were represented by
labor unions. The Railway Labor Act establishes the right of airline employees to organize and bargain
collectively. Under the Railway Labor Act, collective-bargaining agreements between an airline and a
labor union generally do not expire, but instead become amendable as of an agreed date. By the
amendable date, if either party wishes to modify the terms of the agreement, it must notify the other
party in the manner required by the Railway Labor Act and/or described in the agreement. After receipt
of the notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations. If no agreement is reached, either party may
request the National Mediation Board to appoint a federal mediator. If no agreement is reached in
mediation, the National Mediation Board may determine an impasse exists and offer binding
arbitration to the parties. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day “cooling off” period
begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in “self-help,” unless a Presidential
Emergency Board is established to investigate and report on the dispute. The appointment of a
Presidential Emergency Board maintains the “status quo” for an additional period of time. If the parties
do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in “self-help.” “Self-help”
includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the airline’s imposition of any or all of its
20
proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers. The following
table sets forth the Company’s Employee groups and the status of the respective collective-bargaining
agreements as of December 31, 2016:
Employee Group
Approximate Number
of Employees Representatives Status of Agreement
Southwest Pilots 7,900
Southwest Airlines Pilots’
Association (“SWAPA”) Amendable September 2020
Southwest Flight Attendants 13,800
Transportation Workers of
America, AFL-CIO, Local
556 (“TWU 556”) Amendable November 2018
Southwest Ramp, Operations,
Provisioning, Freight Agents 12,000
Transportation Workers of
America, AFL-CIO, Local
555 (“TWU 555”) Amendable February 2021
Southwest Customer Service
Agents, Customer
Representatives, and Source
of Support Representatives 7,400
International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM
142”) Amendable December 2018
Southwest Material
Specialists (formerly known
as Stock Clerks) 300
International Brotherhood
of Teamsters, Local 19
(“IBT 19”) In negotiations
Southwest Mechanics 2,400
Aircraft Mechanics
Fraternal Association
(“AMFA”) In negotiations
Southwest Aircraft
Appearance Technicians 200 AMFA Amendable November 2020
Southwest Facilities
Maintenance Technicians 40 AMFA In negotiations
Southwest Dispatchers 340
Transportation Workers of
America, AFL-CIO, Local
550 (“TWU 550”) Amendable June 2019
Southwest Flight Simulator
Technicians 40
International Brotherhood
of Teamsters (“IBT”) Amendable April 2019
Southwest Flight Crew
Training Instructors 90
Transportation Workers of
America, AFL-CIO, Local
557 (“TWU 557”) Amendable December 2019
Southwest Meteorologists 8 TWU 550 Amendable June 2019
Additional Information About the Company
The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of
charge through the Company’s website, www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to
those reports that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These materials are made
available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition to its reports filed or furnished with the SEC, the
Company publicly discloses material information from time to time in its press releases, at annual
meetings of Shareholders, in publicly accessible conferences and Investor presentations, and through
its website (principally in its Press Room and Investor Relations pages). References to the Company’s
website in this Form 10-K are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be
deemed, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the
website, and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.
21
DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking
statements are based on, and include statements about, the Company’s estimates, expectations, beliefs,
intentions, and strategies for the future, and the assumptions underlying these forward-looking
statements. Specific forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate
strictly to historical or current facts and include, without limitation, words such as “anticipates,”
“believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and similar expressions.
Although management believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made,
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from what is
expressed in or indicated by the Company’s forward-looking statements or from historical experience
or the Company’s present expectations. Known material risk factors that could cause these differences
are set forth below under “Risk Factors.” Additional risks or uncertainties (i) that are not currently
known to the Company, (ii) that the Company currently deems to be immaterial, or (iii) that could
apply to any company, could also materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial
condition, or future results.
Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the Company’s forward-looking statements,
which represent the Company’s views only as of the date this Form 10-K is filed. The Company
undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a
result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Item 1A. Risk Factors
The airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of
unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the Company’s results of operations
could be negatively affected, which could require the Company to adjust its business strategies.
The airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and
unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Historically,
unfavorable U.S. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in
reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. For some consumers, leisure travel is a
discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with
surface travel. Businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as
videoconferencing and the Internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce
costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. Unfavorable economic conditions,
when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic, have also historically hampered the ability of airlines
to raise fares to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. Although the U.S. economy has
experienced moderate economic growth over the course of the past several years, any continuing or
future U.S. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations
and could cause the Company to adjust its business strategies.
22
The Company’s business can be significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices, and
the Company’s operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel;
therefore, the Company’s strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the
Company’s ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and
availability.
Airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented
approximately 22 percent of the Company’s operating expenses for 2016. Although 2016 fuel prices
were lower than in 2015, as discussed above under “Business—Cost Structure,” the cost of fuel can be
extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly
affect profitability. Furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are
beyond the Company’s control. For example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic
factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other
conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity; (iii) worldwide
demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices;
(iv) changes in U.S. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing;
and (v) changes in currency exchange rates.
The Company’s ability to effectively address fuel price increases could be limited by factors such as its
historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its Customer base that purchases travel for leisure
purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will
drive a decrease in demand. The Company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel
prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel
purchases. However, as evidenced by the extreme decline in jet fuel prices in late 2015, energy prices
can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. Because the Company uses a variety of
different derivative instruments at different price points, the Company is subject to the risk that the fuel
derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and
could in fact result in hedging losses, and the Company effectively paying higher than market prices
for fuel, thus creating additional volatility in the Company’s earnings. The Company is also subject to
the risk that additional cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which
could have a significant impact on the Company’s financial position and liquidity.
In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they
will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which can create
additional earnings volatility. Adjustments in the Company’s overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as
the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely
to continue to affect the Company’s results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that
the Company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices.
The Company’s fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on
the Company’s financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail
under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,”
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and in Note 1 and Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the
airports that it serves. A disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the
Company’s operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the
Company to provide service to a particular airport.
23
The Company’s low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive
advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the Company’s ability
to control its costs.
The Company’s low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as
it has enabled it to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, and grow market share; however fuel and labor
costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs, can negatively affect the Company’s
ability to control its costs. Furthermore, the Company has limited control over many of these costs.
Jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 22 percent of the Company’s operating expenses during
2016, and the Company’s ability to control the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed
in the second Risk Factor above.
Salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 41 percent of the Company’s operating
expenses during 2016. The Company’s ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its
collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the Company’s
low-cost competitive position. As discussed further under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the Company’s unionized workforce, which makes up
approximately 83% of its Employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate
increases. Additionally, the majority of Southwest’s unionized Employees, including its Pilots; Flight
Attendants; Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, and Freight Agents; Aircraft Appearance Technicians;
and Flight Crew Training Instructors, have ratified new collective-bargaining agreements during 2016,
which have put pressure on the Company’s low-cost structure. Furthermore, as indicated above under
“Business - Employees,” other Southwest unionized Employees, including its Mechanics; Material
Specialists; and Facilities Maintenance Technicians, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor
agreements, which could result in additional pressure on the Company’s low-cost structure.
As discussed above under “Business - Regulation,” the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the
Company’s regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to
time based on actions by regulatory agencies that are out of the Company’s control. Additionally, the
Company cannot control decisions by other airlines to reduce their capacity. When this occurs, airport
costs are allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which can result in increased landing fees
and other costs for the Company. The Company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service
providers, and its low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain
commercially reasonable terms with those parties.
As discussed above under “Business - Insurance,” the Company carries insurance of types customary
in the airline industry. Although the Company has been able to purchase war-risk (terrorism) insurance
via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in
the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been
provided and may not be adequate to protect against the Company’s risk of loss from future acts of
terrorism. In addition, an accident or other incident involving Southwest aircraft could result in costs in
excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. Any aircraft accident or
other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public’s
perception of the Company.
The Company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost
advantage over many of its airline competitors. Some so called “ultra low-cost carriers” have surpassed
24
the Company’s cost advantage while continuing to add aircraft, expand their networks, and add
competition to the Company’s routes. When competitors grow their fleets and expand their networks,
they are potentially able to better control costs per available seat mile. In addition, like Southwest,
some competitors have plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets, which could
potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies and lower maintenance costs.
Furthermore, some of the Company’s competitors have taken advantage of reorganization in
bankruptcy, and even the threat of bankruptcy, not only to lower employee pay scales, but also to
decrease operating costs through renegotiated supply and financing agreements. In addition, some
airlines have consolidated and reported significant cost synergies.
The Company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to
implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, or breach in
the Company’s information systems could materially adversely affect its operations.
The Company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its
ongoing operations, and the Company continues to implement technology initiatives to support its
ongoing operations and strategies.
Integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs,
human resources, and development of effective internal controls. Integration also presents the risk of
operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the Company’s ability
to effectively operate its business and/or could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations.
The Company is also reliant upon third party performance for timely and effective completion of many
of its technology initiatives.
In the ordinary course of business, the Company’s systems will continue to require modification and
refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to
international operations. In addition, the Company’s systems may require modification to enable the
Company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. Modifications and refinements to the
Company’s systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and may
divert management’s attention from other matters. In addition, the Company’s operations could be
adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or
effectively modify its systems as necessary.
The Company has occasionally experienced system interruptions and delays that make its websites and
services unavailable or slow to respond, which can prevent the Company from efficiently processing
Customer transactions or providing services, and these could continue to occur in the future. These
system interruptions and delays can reduce the Company’s operating revenues and the attractiveness of
its services as well as increase the Company’s costs. The Company’s computer and communications
systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods,
earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of
war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these
events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the
Company from processing Customer transactions or providing services, which could make the
Company’s business and services less attractive and subject the Company to liability. Any of these
events could damage the Company’s reputation and be expensive to remedy.
25
The Company’s business is labor intensive; therefore, the Company would be adversely affected
if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its Employees or its Employees’
Representatives.
The airline business is labor intensive. Salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately
41 percent of the Company’s operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016. In addition, as
of December 31, 2016, approximately 83 percent of the Company’s Employees were represented for
collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the Company particularly exposed in the event
of labor-related job actions. Employment-related issues that have, and continue to, impact the
Company’s results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates,
pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, health care costs, and retirement benefits.
The Company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single
suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the Company would be materially adversely affected
if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers or in the
event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment.
The Company is dependent on Boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and
is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. Although the Company is able to
purchase some aircraft from parties other than Boeing, most of its purchases are directly from Boeing.
Therefore, if the Company were unable to acquire additional aircraft from Boeing, or if Boeing were
unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its
products, the Company’s operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company
would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with
the Boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the Company’s fleet,
increased maintenance costs, or because of a negative perception by the flying public. The Company
believes, however, that its years of experience with the Boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the
efficiencies Southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, outweigh the
risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. The Company is also dependent on sole
suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially
adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated
with, engines and other parts.
Any failure of the Company to maintain the security of certain Customer-related information
could result in damage to the Company’s reputation and could be costly to remediate.
The Company must receive information related to its Customers in order to run its business, and the
Company’s operations depend upon secure retention and the secure transmission of information over
public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. This information is subject to the
risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. Although the Company maintains systems to defend against this
from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and
security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system
disruptions could occur. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company provides certain
confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. While the Company seeks to obtain
assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data
held by third parties could be breached. A compromise of the Company’s security systems could
adversely affect the Company’s reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation
against the Company or the imposition of penalties. In addition, it could be costly to remediate.
26
Although the Company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate,
material, the Company has experienced cyber-attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated
by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the Company.
The Company’s results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to
effectively execute its strategic plans.
Southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline. However, organic growth remains
challenging because (i) the opportunities for domestic expansion are limited; (ii) the Company’s
international network is relatively small and international expansion presents unique challenges; and
(iii) the Company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. As a result, the
Company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies to help offset certain increasing costs and to
continue to improve Customer Service. The timely and effective execution of the Company’s strategic
plans could be negatively affected by (i) the Company’s ability to timely and effectively implement,
transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the Company’s
ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures
related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the Company’s
dependence on third parties with respect to its strategic plans.
The airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further
threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline
industry and the Company’s operations.
Terrorist attacks or other hostilities, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely
affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the
Company and the airline industry generally. Safety measures create delays and inconveniences and
can, in particular, reduce the Company’s competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul
routes. Additional terrorist attacks or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry,
or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective
cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant
negative impact on the Company and the airline industry.
Airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could
continue to limit the Company’s growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation
could increase the Company’s operating costs or otherwise limit the Company’s ability to
conduct business.
Almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state
governments. Airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport
facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. Similarly, the federal government singularly controls all
U.S. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the FAA operating that airspace in a safe and
efficient manner. The current air traffic control system is mainly radar-based and supported in large
part by antiquated equipment and technologies. The FAA’s protracted transition to a satellite-based air
traffic control system, as well as the implementation of policies and standards that account for the
precision of global positioning system-supported aircraft technologies, could continue to adversely
impact airspace capacity and the overall efficiency of the system, resulting in limited opportunities for
the Company to grow, longer scheduled flight times, more delays and cancellations, and increased fuel
consumption and aircraft emissions. As discussed above under “Business - Regulation,” airlines are
27
also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. These requirements often impose substantial
costs on airlines. The Company’s strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected
by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having
jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to:
• increases in airport rates and charges;
• limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities such as the 2016
reallocation of slots at John Wayne Airport in Orange County, California, which caused the
Company to reduce service at that airport;
• limitations on route authorities;
• actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports;
• actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals;
• changes to environmental regulations;
• new or increased taxes or fees;
• changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets
and at particular airports;
• restrictions on competitive practices;
• changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other Customer
Service standards;
• changes in laws that may limit the Company’s ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to
hedge against increases in fuel prices;
• changes in laws that may limit or regulate the Company’s ability to promote the Company’s
business or fares; and
• the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations.
Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a
relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline’s
operating and financial results. Therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result
of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. In
addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially
unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the
Company’s costs.
28
The airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact
the Company’s business strategies and results of operations.
In addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the Company,
like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside
of its control, including, among others:
• adverse weather and natural disasters;
• outbreaks of disease;
• changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends
(including, without limitation, changes in government travel patterns due to government
shutdowns or sequestration);
• actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, without limitation,
as a result of potential FAA budget cuts due to government shutdowns or sequestration);
• changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies,
and other factors;
• air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues; and
• actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability.
The airline industry is intensely competitive.
As discussed in more detail above under “Business - Competition,” the airline industry is intensely
competitive. The Company’s primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as
regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as
videoconferencing and the Internet. The Company’s revenues are sensitive to the actions of other
carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, Customer
Service, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and code-sharing and similar activities.
The Company’s future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded
international operations.
As the Company expands its international flight offerings, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection
(“CBP”) will become an increasingly important federal agency. CBP personnel and CBP-mandated
procedures can affect the Company’s operations, costs, and Customer experience. The Company has
made, and is continuing to make, significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at
certain airports in order to improve the Customer experience and to assist CBP with its inspection and
processing duties; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various CBP
measures or the lack of CBP resources will have on Company revenues and costs, either in the shortterm
or the long-term.
International flying requires the Company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is
dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, commonuse
ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. In addition,
29
international flying exposes the Company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the Company
chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent the
Company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve
certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and/or approvals from
the FAA, as well as any applicable foreign government entity.
The Company’s expansion of its operations into non-U.S. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the
laws to which the Company is subject, both domestically and internationally. In addition, operations in
non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than U.S. laws.
Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these
differences can affect the Company’s ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability
to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. laws. Furthermore, enforcement
of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the
Company’s ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its
business. As a result, the Company’s ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-U.S.
jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. laws governed these operations.
Although the Company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance
with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the Company’s Employees,
contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. Any violation (or alleged or
perceived violation), even if prohibited by the Company’s policies, could have an adverse effect on the
Company’s reputation and/or its results of operations.
The Company is currently subject to pending litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered
against the Company in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the Company’s
operating results.
As discussed below under “Legal Proceedings,” the Company is subject to pending litigation.
Regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the Company or
AirTran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the Company’s operations and cause significant
expense and diversion of management attention. Should AirTran and the Company fail to prevail in
these or other matters, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive
relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial
condition and operating results.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
30
Item 2. Properties
Aircraft
Southwest operated a total of 723 Boeing 737 aircraft as of December 31, 2016, of which 83 and 51
were under operating and capital leases, respectively. The following table details information on the
723 aircraft as of December 31, 2016:
Type Seats
Average
Age
(Yrs)
Number of
Aircraft
Number
Owned (a)
Number
Leased
737-300 137 or 143 22 87 (b) 57 30
737-700 143 13 494 397 97
737-800 175 2 142 135 7
Totals 12 723 589 134
(a) As discussed further in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 202 of the Company’s aircraft were
pledged as collateral as of December 31, 2016, for secured borrowings and/or in the case that the Company
has obligations related to its fuel derivative instruments with counterparties that exceed certain thresholds.
(b) Of the total, 77 737-300 aircraft have 143 seats and 10 have 137 seats.
As of December 31, 2016, the Company had firm deliveries and options for Boeing 737-700, 737-800,
737-7, and 737-8 aircraft as follows:
The Boeing Company
-800
Firm
Orders
-800
Options
-7
Firm
Orders
-8
Firm
Orders
-8
Options
Additional
-700s Total
2017 39 — — 14 — 14 67
2018 21 9 — 13 — 4 47
2019 — — 15 — 5 — 20
2020 — — 14 — 8 — 22
2021 — — 1 13 18 — 32
2022 — — — 15 19 — 34
2023 — — — 34 23 — 57
2024 — — — 41 23 — 64
2025 — — — 40 36 — 76
2026 — — — — 36 — 36
2027 — — — — 23 — 23
60 9 (a) 30 170 (b) 191 18 (c) 478
(a) Includes two -800 options exercised in January 2017.
(b) The Company has flexibility to substitute 737-7 in lieu of 737-8 firm orders beginning in 2019.
(c) To be acquired in leases from various third parties.
Ground Facilities and Services
Southwest either leases or pays a usage fee for terminal passenger service facilities at each of the
airports it serves, to which various leasehold improvements have been made. The Company leases the
31
land and/or structures on a long-term basis for its aircraft maintenance centers (located at Dallas Love
Field, Houston Hobby, Phoenix Sky Harbor, Chicago Midway, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta
International Airport, and Orlando International Airport), its current flight training center at Dallas
Love Field (which currently houses Boeing 737 flight simulators), and its main corporate headquarters
building, also located at Dallas Love Field. The Company also leases a warehouse and engine repair
facility in Atlanta.
The Company has commitments associated with various airport improvement projects, including
ongoing construction at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport and Los Angeles
International Airport. These projects include the construction of new facilities and the rebuilding or
modernization of existing facilities. Additional information regarding these projects is provided below
under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company owns an additional headquarters building, located across the street from the Company’s
main headquarters building, on land owned by the Company. This energy-efficient, modern building,
called TOPS, houses certain operational and training functions, including its 24-hour operations. In
2016, the Company broke ground on an additional headquarters building, called Wings, designed to
house flight simulators, classroom space for Pilot training, and additional work areas. The Wings
building is scheduled to be completed in 2018 and is also located across the street from the Company’s
main headquarters building on land owned by the Company. The Company expects to begin moving its
12 737 flight simulators to the Wings building during 2017 and expects to have all of its flight
simulators in the Wings building by mid-2018. In 2017, the Company expects to add a pedestrian
safety bridge to its corporate campus in order to connect the main headquarters building, the TOPS
building, and the Wings building. As of December 31, 2016, the Company operated seven Customer
Support and Services call centers. The centers located in Atlanta, San Antonio, Chicago, Albuquerque,
and Oklahoma City occupy leased space. The Company owns its Houston and Phoenix centers.
The Company performs substantially all line maintenance on its aircraft and provides ground support
services at most of the airports it serves. However, the Company has arrangements with certain aircraft
maintenance firms for major component inspections and repairs for its airframes and engines, which
comprise the majority of the Company’s annual aircraft maintenance costs.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
A complaint alleging violations of federal antitrust laws and seeking certification as a class action was
filed against Delta Air Lines, Inc. and AirTran in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia in Atlanta on May 22, 2009. The complaint alleged, among other things, that
AirTran attempted to monopolize air travel in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act, and conspired
with Delta in imposing $15-per-bag fees for the first item of checked luggage in violation of Section 1
of the Sherman Act. The initial complaint sought treble damages on behalf of a putative class of
persons or entities in the United States who directly paid Delta and/or AirTran such fees on domestic
flights beginning December 5, 2008. After the filing of the May 2009 complaint, various other nearly
identical complaints also seeking certification as class actions were filed in federal district courts in
Atlanta, Georgia; Orlando, Florida; and Las Vegas, Nevada. All of the cases were consolidated before
a single federal district court judge in Atlanta. A Consolidated Amended Complaint was filed in the
consolidated action on February 1, 2010, which broadened the allegations to add claims that Delta and
AirTran conspired to reduce capacity on competitive routes and to raise prices in violation of Section 1
32
of the Sherman Act. In addition to treble damages for the amount of first baggage fees paid to AirTran
and to Delta, the Consolidated Amended Complaint seeks injunctive relief against a broad range of
alleged anticompetitive activities, as well as attorneys’ fees. On August 2, 2010, the Court dismissed
plaintiffs’ claims that AirTran and Delta had violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act; the Court let stand
the claims of a conspiracy with respect to the imposition of a first bag fee and the airlines’ capacity and
pricing decisions. On June 30, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a motion to certify a class, which AirTran and
Delta opposed. The parties engaged in extensive discovery, and discovery has now closed. On June 18,
2012, the parties filed a Stipulation and Order that plaintiffs have abandoned their claim that AirTran
and Delta conspired to reduce capacity. On August 31, 2012, AirTran and Delta moved for summary
judgment on all of plaintiffs’ remaining claims. The parties filed motions to exclude the opinions of the
other parties’ experts on class certification and on the merits. On January 8, 2016, the parties
completed briefing on defendants’ motions for summary judgment, plaintiffs’ motion for class
certification, and the motions to exclude the opinions of experts. On July 12, 2016, the Court granted
plaintiffs’ motion to certify a class of all persons who paid first bag fees to AirTran or Delta from
December 8, 2008 to November 1, 2014 (the date on which AirTran stopped charging first bag fees).
Defendants submitted a petition to appeal the class certification decision, which the Court of Appeals
for the Eleventh Circuit granted on October 7, 2016, and the appeal is ongoing. Defendants’ motions
for summary judgment have been submitted for decision and are still pending. AirTran denies all
allegations of wrongdoing, including those in the Consolidated Amended Complaint, and intends to
defend vigorously any and all such allegations.
Also, on June 30, 2015, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) issued a Civil Investigative Demand
(“CID”) to the Company. The CID seeks information and documents about the Company’s capacity
from January 2010 to the present including public statements and communications with third parties
about capacity. In June 2015, the Company also received a letter from the Connecticut Attorney
General requesting information about capacity; and on August 21, 2015, the Attorney General of the
State of Ohio issued an investigative demand seeking information and documents about the Company’s
capacity from December 2013 to the present. The Company is cooperating fully with the DOJ CID and
these two state inquiries.
Further, on July 1, 2015, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York on behalf of putative classes of consumers alleging collusion among the
Company, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and United Airlines to limit capacity and maintain
higher fares in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Since then, a number of similar class action
complaints were filed in the United States District Courts for the Central District of California, the
Northern District of California, the District of Columbia, the Middle District of Florida, the Southern
District of Florida, the Northern District of Georgia, the Northern District of Illinois, the Southern
District of Indiana, the Eastern District of Louisiana, the District of Minnesota, the District of
New Jersey, the Eastern District of New York, the Southern District of New York, the Middle District
of North Carolina, the District of Oklahoma, the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Northern District
of Texas, the District of Vermont, and the Eastern District of Wisconsin. On October 13, 2015, the
Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation centralized the cases to the United States District Court in
the District of Columbia. On March 25, 2016, the plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Amended Complaint
in the consolidated cases alleging that the defendants conspired to restrict capacity from 2009 to
present. The plaintiffs seek to bring their claims on behalf of a class of persons who purchased tickets
for domestic airline travel on the defendants’ airlines from July 1, 2011 to present. They seek treble
damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees and expenses. On May 11, 2016, the defendants moved
to dismiss the Consolidated Amended Complaint, and on October 28, 2016, the Court denied this
33
motion. On January 31, 2017, the Court entered a case management schedule that calls for discovery to
be completed, and for plaintiffs to file a motion for class certification, by April 27, 2018. The
Company denies all allegations of wrongdoing and intends to vigorously defend these civil cases.
In addition, on July 8, 2015, the Company was named as a defendant in a putative class action filed in
the Federal Court in Canada alleging that the Company, Air Canada, American Airlines, Delta Air
Lines, and United Airlines colluded to restrict capacity and maintain higher fares for Canadian
residents traveling in the United States and for travel between the United States and Canada. Similar
lawsuits were filed in the Supreme Court of British Columbia on July 15, 2015, Court of Queen’s
Bench for Saskatchewan on August 4, 2015, Superior Court of the Province of Quebec on
September 21, 2015, and Ontario Superior Court of Justice on October 6, 2015. In December 2015, the
Company entered into Tolling and Discontinuance agreements with putative class counsel in the
Federal Court and British Columbia and Ontario proceedings and a discontinuance agreement with
putative class counsel in the Quebec proceeding. The other defendants entered into an agreement with
the same putative class counsel to stay the Federal Court, British Columbia, and Quebec proceedings
and to proceed in Ontario. On June 10, 2016, the Federal Court granted plaintiffs’ motion to
discontinue that action against the Company without prejudice and stayed the action against the other
defendants. On July 13, 2016, the plaintiff unilaterally discontinued the action against the Company in
British Columbia. On September 28, 2016, the plaintiff filed a motion to discontinue the Quebec
proceeding against the Company and to stay that proceeding against the other defendants. An initial
case conference in the Ontario litigation was held on January 27, 2017, and the case managing judge
scheduled a motion to discontinue that proceeding as to the Company for March 10, 2017. The time for
the Company to respond to the remaining complaints has not yet expired. The plaintiffs in the
remaining complaints generally seek damages (including punitive damages in certain cases),
prejudgment interest, disgorgement of any benefits accrued by the defendants as a result of the
allegations, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees and other costs. The Company denies all allegations of
wrongdoing and intends to vigorously defend these civil cases in Canada.
The Company is from time to time subject to various legal proceedings and claims arising in the
ordinary course of business, including, but not limited to, examinations by the Internal Revenue
Service.
The Company’s management does not expect that the outcome in any of its currently ongoing legal
proceedings or the outcome of any proposed adjustments presented to date by the Internal Revenue
Service, individually or collectively, will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
condition, results of operations, or cash flow.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
34
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
The following information regarding the Company’s executive officers is as of February 1, 2017.
Name Position Age
Gary C. Kelly Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer 61
Thomas M. Nealon President 55
Michael G. Van de Ven Chief Operating Officer 55
Robert E. Jordan Executive Vice President & Chief Commercial Officer 56
Jeff Lamb Executive Vice President Corporate Services 54
Tammy Romo Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer 54
Gregory D. Wells Executive Vice President Daily Operations 58
Mark R. Shaw Senior Vice President, General Counsel, & Corporate Secretary 54
Set forth below is a description of the background of each of the Company’s executive officers.
Gary C. Kelly has served as the Company’s Chairman of the Board since May 2008 and as its Chief
Executive Officer since July 2004. Mr. Kelly also served as President from July 2008 to January 2017,
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer from June 2001 to July 2004, and Vice
President Finance & Chief Financial Officer from 1989 to 2001. Mr. Kelly joined the Company in
1986 as its Controller.
Thomas M. Nealon has served as the Company’s President since January 2017. Mr. Nealon also served
as Executive Vice President Strategy & Innovation from January 2016 to January 2017. Prior to
becoming an executive officer of the Company, Mr. Nealon served on the Company’s Board of
Directors from December 2010 until November 2015. Mr. Nealon has also served as Group Executive
Vice President of J.C. Penney Company, Inc., a retail company, from August 2010 until December
2011. In this role Mr. Nealon was responsible for Strategy, jcp.com, Information Technology,
Customer Insights, and Digital Ventures. Mr. Nealon also served as J.C. Penney’s Executive Vice
President & Chief Information Officer from September 2006 until August 2010. Prior to joining
J.C. Penney, Mr. Nealon was a partner with The Feld Group, a provider of information technology
consulting services, where he served in a consultant capacity as Senior Vice President & Chief
Information Officer for the Company from 2002 to 2006. Mr. Nealon also served as Chief Information
Officer for Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., from 1996 to 2000, and in various software
engineering, systems engineering, and management positions for Frito-Lay from 1983 to 1996.
Michael G. Van de Ven has served as the Company’s Chief Operating Officer since May 2008.
Mr. Van de Ven also served as Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer from May 2008 to
January 2017, Chief of Operations from September 2006 to May 2008, Executive Vice
President Aircraft Operations from November 2005 through August 2006, Senior Vice
President Planning from August 2004 to November 2005, Vice President Financial Planning &
Analysis from 2001 to 2004, Senior Director Financial Planning & Analysis from 2000 to 2001, and
Director Financial Planning & Analysis from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Van de Ven joined the Company in
1993 as its Director Internal Audit.
Robert E. Jordan has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President & Chief Commercial Officer
since September 2011 and as President of AirTran Airways, Inc. since May 2011. Mr. Jordan also
35
served as Executive Vice President Strategy & Planning from May 2008 to September 2011, Executive
Vice President Strategy & Technology from September 2006 to May 2008, Senior Vice
President Enterprise Spend Management from August 2004 to September 2006, Vice
President Technology from 2002 to 2004, Vice President Purchasing from 2001 to 2002, Controller
from 1997 to 2001, Director Revenue Accounting from 1994 to 1997, and Manager Sales Accounting
from 1990 to 1994. Mr. Jordan joined the Company in 1988 as a programmer.
Jeff Lamb has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President Corporate Services since July 2015.
Mr. Lamb also served as Executive Vice President & Chief People & Administrative Officer from
September 2011 to July 2015, Senior Vice President Administration & Chief People Officer from
October 2007 to September 2011, Vice President People & Leadership Development from February
2006 to October 2007, and as Senior Director People Development from December 2004 until
February 2006.
Tammy Romo has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer since
July 2015. Ms. Romo also served as Senior Vice President Finance & Chief Financial Officer from
September 2012 to July 2015, Senior Vice President of Planning from February 2010 to September
2012, Vice President of Financial Planning from September 2008 to February 2010, Vice President
Controller from February 2006 to August 2008, Vice President Treasurer from September 2004 to
February 2006, Senior Director of Investor Relations from March 2002 to September 2004, Director of
Investor Relations from December 1994 to March 2002, Manager of Investor Relations from
September 1994 to December 1994, and Manager of Financial Reporting from September 1991 to
September 1994.
Gregory D. Wells has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President Daily Operations since
January 2017. Mr. Wells also served as Senior Vice President Operational Performance from October
2013 to January 2017, Senior Vice President Operations from September 2006 to October 2013, Senior
Vice President Ground Operations from November 2005 to September 2006, Vice President Ground
Operations from September 2004 to November 2005, Vice President Safety, Security, and Flight
Dispatch from October 2001 to September 2004, Director Flight Dispatch from February 1999 to
October 2001, Senior Director Ground Operations from August 1998 to February 1999, and Director
Ground Operations from August 1996 to August 1998. Prior to August 1996, Mr. Wells had various
other operational experience with the Company including as Station Manager in both San Jose and
Phoenix. Mr. Wells has almost 35 years of experience with the Company.
Mark R. Shaw has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President, General Counsel, & Corporate
Secretary since July 2015. Mr. Shaw also served as Vice President, General Counsel, & Corporate
Secretary from February 2013 to July 2015 and as Associate General Counsel—Corporate &
Transactions from February 2008 to February 2013. Mr. Shaw joined the Company in 2000 as an
Attorney in the General Counsel Department.
36
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities
The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and is traded
under the symbol “LUV.” The following table shows the high and low prices per share of the
Company’s common stock, as reported on the NYSE Composite Tape, and the cash dividends per
share declared on the Company’s common stock.
Period Dividend High Low
2016
1st Quarter $ 0.07500 $ 45.39 $ 33.96
2nd Quarter 0.10000 48.00 36.48
3rd Quarter 0.10000 45.00 35.42
4th Quarter 0.10000 51.31 36.91
2015
1st Quarter $ 0.06000 $ 47.17 $ 38.26
2nd Quarter 0.07500 44.19 33.02
3rd Quarter 0.07500 40.87 31.36
4th Quarter 0.07500 51.34 37.00
The Company currently intends to continue declaring dividends on a quarterly basis for the foreseeable
future; however, the Company’s Board of Directors may elect to alter the timing, amount, and payment
of dividends on the basis of operational results, financial condition, cash requirements, future
prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. As of February 3, 2017, there were
approximately 12,850 holders of record of the Company’s common stock.
37
Stock Performance Graph
The following Performance Graph and related information shall not be deemed “soliciting material”
or “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall such information be incorporated
by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on the Company’s common
stock over the five-year period ended December 31, 2016, with the cumulative total return during such
period of the Standard and Poor’s 500 Stock Index and the NYSE ARCA Airline Index. The
comparison assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2011, in the Company’s common stock and
in each of the foregoing indices and assumes reinvestment of dividends. The stock performance shown
on the graph below represents historical stock performance and is not necessarily indicative of future
stock price performance.
COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN AMONG SOUTHWEST AIRLINES
CO., S&P 500 INDEX, AND NYSE ARCA AIRLINE INDEX
12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/14 12/31/16 12/31/15
0
200
100
300
400
500
600
700
Southwest Airlines Co. S&P 500
Period Ending
Total Cumulative Return - Dollars
NYSE ARCA Airline
12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 12/31/2016
Southwest Airlines Co. $ 100 $ 120 $ 222 $ 502 $ 514 $ 600
S&P 500 $ 100 $ 116 $ 153 $ 177 $ 176 $ 197
NYSE ARCA Airline $ 100 $ 138 $ 218 $ 327 $ 277 $ 356
38
Issuer Repurchases
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (1)
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Period
Total number
of shares
purchased
Average
price paid
per share
Total number of
shares purchased
as part of publicly
announced plans or
programs
Maximum dollar
value of shares that
may yet be purchased
under the plans or
programs
October 1, 2016 through
October 31, 2016 1,709,877 $ — (2) 1,709,877 $ 1,250,000,000
November 1, 2016 through
November 30, 2016 — $ — (3) — $ 950,000,000
December 1, 2016 through
December 31, 2016 4,723,420 $ — (3) 4,723,420 $ 950,000,000
Total 6,433,297 6,433,297
(1) On May 18, 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of
the Company’s common stock. Repurchases are made in accordance with applicable securities laws in
open market, private, or accelerated repurchase transactions from time to time, depending on market
conditions, and may be discontinued at any time.
(2) Under an accelerated share repurchase program entered into by the Company with a third party financial
institution in third quarter 2016 (the “Third Quarter 2016 ASR Program”), the Company paid
$250 million and received an initial delivery of 4,956,384 shares during third quarter 2016, representing
an estimated 75 percent of the shares to be purchased by the Company under the Third Quarter 2016 ASR
Program based on a price of $37.83 per share, which was the closing price of the Company’s common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange on July 22, 2016. Final settlement of this Third Quarter 2016
ASR Program occurred in October 2016 and was determined based generally on a discount to the
volume-weighted average price per share of the Company’s common stock during a calculation period
completed in October 2016. Upon settlement, the third party financial institution delivered 1,709,877
additional shares of the Company’s common stock to the Company. In total, the average purchase price
per share for the 6,666,261 shares repurchased under the Third Quarter 2016 ASR Program, upon
completion of the Third Quarter 2016 ASR Program in October 2016, was $37.5023.
(3) Under an accelerated share repurchase program entered into by the Company with a third party financial
institution in fourth quarter 2016 (the “Fourth Quarter 2016 ASR Program”), the Company paid
$300 million in November 2016 and received an initial delivery of 4,723,420 shares during December
2016, representing an estimated 75 percent of the shares to be purchased by the Company under the
Fourth Quarter 2016 ASR Program based on a volume-weighted average price of $47.6350 per share of
the Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange during a calculation period between
November 18, 2016 and December 8, 2016. The specific number of shares that the Company ultimately
will repurchase under the Fourth Quarter 2016 ASR Program will be determined based generally on a
discount to the volume-weighted average price per share of the Company’s common stock during a
calculation period to be completed in February 2017. At settlement, under certain circumstances, the
third party financial institution may be required to deliver additional shares of common stock to the
Company, or under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to deliver shares of its common
stock or may elect to make a cash payment to the third party financial institution.
39
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
The following financial information, for the five years ended December 31, 2016, has been derived
from the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. This information should be viewed in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere
herein. The Company provides the operating data below because these statistics are commonly used in
the airline industry and, therefore, allow readers to compare the Company’s performance against its
results for prior periods, as well as against the performance of the Company’s peers.
Year ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Financial Data (in millions, except per share amounts):
Operating revenues $ 20,425 $ 19,820 $ 18,605 $ 17,699 $ 17,088
Operating expenses 16,665 15,704 16,380 16,421 16,465
Operating income 3,760 4,116 2,225 1,278 623
Other expenses (income) net 213 637 409 69 (62)
Income before taxes 3,547 3,479 1,816 1,209 685
Provision for income taxes 1,303 1,298 680 455 264
Net income $ 2,244 $ 2,181 $ 1,136 $ 754 $ 421
Net income per share, basic $ 3.58 $ 3.30 $ 1.65 $ 1.06 $ 0.56
Net income per share, diluted $ 3.55 $ 3.27 $ 1.64 $ 1.05 $ 0.56
Cash dividends per common share $ 0.3750 $ 0.2850 $ 0.2200 $ 0.1300 $ 0.0345
Total assets at period-end (1) $ 23,286 $ 21,312 $ 19,723 $ 19,177 $ 18,350
Long-term obligations at period-end $ 2,821 $ 2,541 $ 2,434 $ 2,191 $ 2,883
Stockholders’ equity at period-end $ 8,441 $ 7,358 $ 6,775 $ 7,336 $ 6,992
Operating Data:
Revenue passengers carried 124,719,765 118,171,211 110,496,912 108,075,976 109,346,509
Enplaned passengers 151,740,357 144,574,882 135,767,188 133,155,030 133,978,100
Revenue passenger miles (RPMs) (000s) (2) 124,797,986 117,499,879 108,035,133 104,348,216 102,874,979
Available seat miles (ASMs) (000s) (3) 148,522,051 140,501,409 131,003,957 130,344,072 128,137,110
Load factor (4) 84.0% 83.6% 82.5% 80.1% 80.3%
Average length of passenger haul (miles) 1,001 994 978 966 941
Average aircraft stage length (miles) 760 750 721 703 693
Trips flown 1,311,149 1,267,358 1,255,502 1,312,785 1,361,558
Seats flown (5) 193,167,695 184,955,094 179,733,055 183,563,527 184,208,891
Seats per trip (6) 147.33 145.94 143.16 139.83 135.92
Average passenger fare (11) $ 149.09 $ 154.85 $ 159.80 $ 154.72 $ 147.17
Passenger revenue yield per RPM (cents) (7)(11) 14.90 15.57 16.34 16.02 15.64
Operating revenue per ASM (cents) (8) 13.75 13.98 14.20 13.58 13.34
Passenger revenue per ASM (cents) (9)(11) 12.52 13.02 13.48 12.83 12.56
Operating expenses per ASM (cents) (10) 11.22 11.18 12.50 12.60 12.85
Operating expenses per ASM, excluding fuel (cents) 8.76 8.60 8.46 8.18 8.07
Operating expenses per ASM, excluding fuel and
profitsharing (cents) 8.37 8.16 8.19 8.01 7.98
Fuel costs per gallon, including fuel tax $ 1.82 $ 1.90 $ 2.93 $ 3.16 $ 3.30
Fuel costs per gallon, including fuel tax, economic $ 1.92 $ 2.07 $ 2.92 $ 3.12 $ 3.28
Fuel consumed, in gallons (millions) 1,996 1,901 1,801 1,818 1,847
Active fulltime equivalent Employees 53,536 49,583 46,278 44,381 45,861
Aircraft at end of period 723 704 665 681 694
40
(1) Historical amounts have been restated to align with current presentation.
(2) A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one mile. Also referred to as “traffic,” which is a measure of demand for a
given period.
(3) An available seat mile is one seat (empty or full) flown one mile. Also referred to as “capacity,” which is a measure of the space
available to carry passengers in a given period.
(4) Revenue passenger miles divided by available seat miles.
(5) Seats flown is calculated using total number of seats available by aircraft type multiplied by the total trips flown by the same aircraft
type during a particular period.
(6) Seats per trip is calculated using seats flown divided by trips flown. Also referred to as “gauge.”
(7) Calculated as passenger revenue divided by revenue passenger miles. Also referred to as “yield,” this is the average cost paid by a
paying passenger to fly one mile, which is a measure of revenue production and fares.
(8) Calculated as operating revenues divided by available seat miles. Also referred to as “operating unit revenues” or “RASM,” this is a
measure of operating revenue production based on the total available seat miles flown during a particular period. Year ended 2015
RASM excludes a $172 million one-time special revenue adjustment. Including the special revenue adjustment, RASM would have
been 14.11 cents for the year ended 2015. Additional information regarding this special item is provided in the Note Regarding Use of
Non-GAAP Financial Measures and a reconciliation of revenue excluding special items related to accounting changes in the
accompanying pages.
(9) Calculated as passenger revenue divided by available seat miles. Also referred to as “passenger unit revenues,” this is a measure of
passenger revenue production based on the total available seat miles flown during a particular period.
(10) Calculated as operating expenses divided by available seat miles. Also referred to as “unit costs” or “cost per available seat mile,” this is
the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile, which is a measure of cost efficiencies.
(11) Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact from the Company’s July
2015 amended co-branded credit card agreement with Chase Bank USA, N.A.
41
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
YEAR IN REVIEW
For the 44th consecutive year, the Company was profitable, recording GAAP and non-GAAP results
for 2016 and 2015 as noted in the following tables. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial
Measures and the Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for
additional detail regarding non-GAAP financial measures.
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Year ended
December 31,
GAAP 2016 2015
Percent
Change
Operating income $ 3,760 $ 4,116 (8.6)
Net income $ 2,244 $ 2,181 2.9
Net income per share, diluted $ 3.55 $ 3.27 8.6
Non-GAAP
Operating income $ 3,957 $ 3,957 —
Net income $ 2,370 $ 2,355 0.6
Net income per share, diluted $ 3.75 $ 3.52 6.5
Net income for the year ended December 31, 2016, was a Company record $2.24 billion, a 2.9 percent
increase year-over-year, or $3.55 per diluted share. This increase was primarily driven by a
41.9 percent increase in Other operating revenues due to the Company’s July 2015 amended cobranded
credit card agreement (“Agreement”) with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”) and a resulting
required change in accounting methodology (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information), coupled with increased Passenger revenues driven by strong demand for low-fare
air travel and a 5.7 percent year-over-year capacity growth. This increase was partially offset by an
increase in Salaries, wages, and benefits expense, an increase in Depreciation and amortization
expense, and an increase in Other operating expenses. These items are discussed in more detail below.
Excluding special items in both years, non-GAAP Net income was a record $2.37 billion, a 0.6 percent
increase year-over-year, or $3.75 per diluted share. Year ended December 31, 2016 Operating income
was $3.8 billion and non-GAAP Operating income was $4.0 billion.
For the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, the Company produced a 30.0 percent Return on
invested capital (“ROIC”), compared with 32.7 percent for the twelve months ended December 31,
2015. See the Company’s calculation of ROIC in the accompanying reconciliation tables as well as the
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
During 2016, the Company continued to return significant value to its Shareholders. The Company
returned a record $2.0 billion to Shareholders through a combined $222 million in dividend payments
and $1.75 billion through five separate accelerated share repurchase programs. During November
2016, the Company launched the Fourth Quarter 2016 ASR Program by advancing $300 million to a
financial institution in a privately negotiated transaction. During December 2016, the Company
received an initial delivery of 4.7 million shares of common stock, representing an estimated
75 percent of shares to be purchased by the Company under the Fourth Quarter 2016 ASR Program.
42
The specific number of shares that the Company ultimately will repurchase under the Fourth Quarter
2016 ASR Program will be determined based generally on a discount to the volume-weighted average
price per share of the Company’s common stock during a calculation period to be completed in
February 2017. The purchase was recorded as a treasury share purchase for purposes of calculating
earnings per share. See Part II, Item 5 for further information on the Company’s share repurchase
authorizations.
Company Overview
During 2016, the Company began scheduled service to Long Beach, California and scheduled service
to three Cuban cities: Havana, Varadero, and Santa Clara. With the addition of these new markets, the
Company now serves 101 cities across nine countries and operates over 3,900 departures a day. Also in
January 2017, the Company filed an application with the DOT to serve Owen Roberts International
Airport in Grand Cayman, and announced plans to launch service to Cincinnati/Northern
Kentucky International Airport, both scheduled to begin in June 2017.
The Company plans to continue its route network and schedule optimization efforts through the
addition of new markets and itineraries, while also pruning less profitable flights from its schedule.
The Company currently plans to grow its 2017 available seat miles approximately 3.5 percent, yearover-year,
with approximately 2.5 points of that increase relating to domestic growth.
During 2016, the Company took delivery of 38 737-800 aircraft from Boeing and 23 pre-owned
Boeing 737-700 aircraft from third parties. The Company also retired 31 Boeing 737-300 (“Classic”)
aircraft and its remaining 11 Boeing 737-500 aircraft during the year. By the end of third quarter 2017,
the Company intends to retire the 87 Classic aircraft remaining in its fleet at December 31, 2016. After
taking into account scheduled deliveries for new and pre-owned aircraft in 2017, this accelerated
retirement schedule is expected to decrease the Company’s fleet to 703 aircraft by year-end 2017. For
2018, the Company’s current firm aircraft commitments would result in 743 aircraft by year-end 2018,
including nine Boeing 737-800 options exercised during 2016, and two Boeing 737-800 options
exercised in January 2017. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information.
The Company is the launch customer for Boeing’s new, more fuel-efficient 737-8 aircraft, which is
expected to enter service in fourth quarter 2017. The 737-8 is expected to reduce fuel burn and CO2
emissions approximately 20 percent, compared with the 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft when they first
entered service. Southwest is also the launch customer for the Boeing 737-7 series aircraft, with
deliveries expected to begin in 2019. Currently, the Company has firm orders in place for 170 737-8
aircraft and 30 737-7 aircraft. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information.
The Company is in the midst of a multi-year project to completely replace its reservation system. In
2014, the Company launched the Amadeus Altéa reservations solution to support the Company’s
international service. The Company has since begun implementing Amadeus’ Altéa reservations
solution as the Company’s future single reservation system for both domestic and international
reservations. The implementation consists of two foundational releases. Release 1 was completed in
December 2016, and added functionality to enable the sale of domestic tickets on the new reservation
system. Release 2 is expected to be completed on May 9, 2017 and will add functionality to enable
operational capabilities such as passenger check-in and boarding and baggage check-in on the new
43
reservation system. Subsequent releases will add functionality to enable revenue enhancements, further
schedule optimization, support for international growth, and additional foundational and operational
capabilities.
During 2016, the following events took place regarding the Company’s unionized Employee groups in
contract negotiations:
• The Company’s Flight Crew Training Instructors, represented by Transport Workers Union (“TWU”)
Local 557, ratified a new collective-bargaining agreement with the Company. The newly ratified
contract becomes amendable in December 2019.
• The Company’s Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, and Freight Agents, represented by TWU Local 555,
ratified a new collective-bargaining agreement with the Company. The newly ratified contract becomes
amendable in February 2021.
• The Company’s Pilots, represented by the Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association, ratified a new
collective-bargaining agreement. The newly ratified contract becomes amendable in September 2020.
• The Company’s Flight Attendants, represented by TWU Local 556, ratified a new collectivebargaining
agreement with the Company. The newly ratified contract becomes amendable in November
2018.
• The Company’s Aircraft Appearance Technicians, represented by the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal
Association (“AMFA”), ratified a new collective-bargaining agreement with the Company. The newly
ratified contract becomes amendable in November 2020.
• The Company’s Facilities Maintenance Technicians, represented by AMFA, reached a tentative
collective-bargaining agreement with the Company, which was announced in October 2016. The
Facilities Maintenance Technicians failed to ratify this agreement, as announced by the Company on
December 29, 2016, and the parties will continue negotiations.
2016 Compared with 2015
Operating Revenues
Passenger revenues for 2016 increased by $295 million, or 1.6 percent, compared with 2015. Holding
all other factors constant, the increase was primarily attributable to a 5.7 percent increase in capacity as
strong Customer demand for low-fare air travel enabled the Company to fill the additional seats, as
evidenced by a Company record annual load factor of 84.0 percent. On a unit basis, Passenger
revenues decreased 3.8 percent, year-over-year, largely driven by a 4.3 percent decrease in passenger
revenue yield, year-over-year, which included a reduction to 2016 Passenger revenues associated with
the Agreement with Chase, as a result of the required change in accounting methodology in 2015. The
Agreement resulted in an acceleration of the timing of revenue recognition on a prospective basis
beginning July 1, 2015, as well as a change in classification. The transportation element of the
consideration received is now allocated a lower relative value, resulting in a reduction in the revenues
classified as Passenger on a prospective basis, and the higher relative value associated with the nontransportation
elements results in an increase in the portion of revenues classified as Other within the
Consolidated Statement of Income; however, the precise revenue impact for future periods is not
determinable until the volume of future transactions for the period is known. See Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
44
Freight revenues for 2016 decreased by $8 million, or 4.5 percent, compared with 2015, primarily due
to sluggish demand. Based on current trends, the Company currently expects Freight revenues in
first quarter 2017 to be comparable with first quarter 2016.
The Company recorded a Special revenue adjustment during 2015 of $172 million. This adjustment
represented a one-time non-cash reduction to deferred revenue liability as a result of the Agreement
with Chase and the resulting required change in accounting methodology, and is classified as a special
item and thus excluded from the Company’s 2015 non-GAAP financial results. See Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for
further information.
Other revenues for 2016 increased $490 million, or 41.9 percent, compared with 2015, primarily as a
result of the Agreement with Chase and the resulting required change in accounting methodology. This
change resulted in approximately 90 percent of the increase to Other revenue year-over-year.
Excluding this impact of the Agreement with Chase, Other revenues increased primarily due to higher
ancillary revenues associated with EarlyBird Check-in® and A1-15 select boarding positions sold at the
airport. The Company currently expects Other revenues in first quarter 2017 to increase, compared
with first quarter 2016.
Based on revenue and booking trends thus far in first quarter 2017, the Company is currently
expecting first quarter 2017 operating unit revenues to be flat to down one percent, compared with first
quarter 2016.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses for 2016 increased $961 million, or 6.1 percent, compared with 2015, while
capacity increased 5.7 percent over the same period. Historically, except for changes in the price of
fuel, changes in Operating expenses for airlines have been largely driven by changes in capacity, or
ASMs. The following table presents the Company’s Operating expenses per ASM for 2016 and 2015,
followed by explanations of these changes on a per ASM basis and dollar basis:
Year ended December 31, Per ASM Percent
(in cents, except for percentages) 2016 2015 change change
Salaries, wages, and benefits 4.57¢ 4.54¢ 0.03¢ 0.7%
Fuel and oil 2.46 2.58 (0.12) (4.7)
Maintenance materials and repairs 0.70 0.72 (0.02) (2.8)
Aircraft rentals 0.15 0.17 (0.02) (11.8)
Landing fees and other rentals 0.82 0.83 (0.01) (1.2)
Depreciation and amortization 0.82 0.72 0.10 13.9
Acquisition and integration — 0.03 (0.03) n.m.
Other operating expenses 1.70 1.59 0.11 6.9
Total 11.22¢ 11.18¢ 0.04¢ 0.4%
Operating expenses per ASM for 2016 increased by 0.4 percent, compared with 2015, primarily due to
the accelerated depreciation expense associated with the planned early retirement of the Classic fleet,
higher contract programming and consulting expenses associated with large technology projects, and
higher wage rates due to new labor agreements. These increases were partially offset by lower jet fuel
45
prices and lower profitsharing expense. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on the early retirement of the Classic fleet. Operating expenses per ASM for 2016,
excluding Fuel and oil expense and special items (a non-GAAP financial measure), increased
1.6 percent year-over-year. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and the
Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional detail regarding
non-GAAP financial measures. Based on current trends and excluding Fuel and oil expense, special
items, and profitsharing expense, the Company expects its first quarter 2017 unit costs to increase in
the six to seven percent range, compared with first quarter 2016, largely due to amended union
contracts. The year-over-year projections do not reflect the potential impact of Fuel and oil expense,
profitsharing expense, and special items in both years because the Company cannot reliably predict or
estimate those items or expenses or their impact to its financial statements in future periods, especially
considering the significant volatility of the Fuel and oil expense line item. Accordingly, the Company
believes a reconciliation of non–GAAP financial measures to the equivalent GAAP financial measures
for projected results is not meaningful or available without unreasonable effort. The Company
currently expects to record a charge during 2017 associated with the grounding of its remaining Classic
fleet. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. This charge
primarily relates to future contractual payments due to lessors for leased Classic aircraft with lease
terms extending beyond third quarter 2017. The Company continues to negotiate with these lessors in
order to attempt to terminate certain leases early and potentially buy-out the remainder of the
lease. Therefore, the Company cannot yet accurately predict the amounts and/or timing of such charges
during the first three quarters of 2017.
Salaries, wages, and benefits expense for 2016 increased $415 million, or 6.5 percent, compared with
2015. Salaries, wages, and benefits expense per ASM for 2016 increased 0.7 percent, compared with
2015. On both a dollar and per ASM basis, the increase was primarily due to wage rate increases as a
result of agreements reached with multiple workgroups, increased training, additional headcount, and
contractual increases. Based on current cost trends and anticipated capacity, the Company expects first
quarter 2017 Salaries, wages, and benefits expense per ASM, excluding profitsharing expense,
to increase, compared with first quarter 2016. The year-over-year projection does not reflect the
potential impact of profitsharing expense in both years because the Company cannot reliably predict or
estimate that expense or its impact to the Company’s financial statements in future periods.
Accordingly, the Company believes a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the equivalent
GAAP financial measures for projected results is not meaningful or available without unreasonable
effort.
During 2016, the Company conducted negotiations with various unionized Employee groups. See the
above discussion in Company Overview for agreements reached during the year. The following table
sets forth the Company’s unionized Employee groups that are currently in negotiations on collectivebargaining
agreements:
Employee Group
Approximate
Number of
Employees Representatives Amendable Date
Southwest Material Specialists
(formerly known as Stock Clerks) 300
International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, Local 19 (“IBT 19”) August 2013
Southwest Mechanics 2,400
Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal
Association (“AMFA”) August 2012
Southwest Facilities Maintenance
Technicians 40 AMFA N/A
46
Fuel and oil expense for 2016 increased by $31 million, or 0.9 percent, compared with 2015. On a per
ASM basis, Fuel and oil expense for 2016 decreased 4.7 percent, compared with 2015, as the dollar
increases were more than offset by the 5.7 percent increase in capacity. On a dollar basis, the increase
was attributable to the $566 million increase in net losses resulting from the Company’s fuel hedging
program. Excluding the impact of hedging, Fuel and oil expense would have decreased by
$535 million, or 15.9 percent, compared with 2015, due to lower market jet fuel prices. See Note
Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and the Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to
Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional detail regarding non-GAAP financial measures. The
Company’s average economic jet fuel price per gallon decreased 7.2 percent year-over-year, from
$2.07 for 2015 to $1.92 for 2016. Fuel gallons consumed increased 5.0 percent, compared with 2015,
while year-over-year capacity increased 5.7 percent. As a result of the Company’s fuel hedging
program, the Company recognized net losses totaling $820 million in Fuel and oil expense for 2016,
compared with net losses totaling $254 million for 2015. These totals include cash settlements realized
from the settlement of fuel derivative contracts associated with the Company’s “economic” fuel hedge
totaling $1.0 billion paid to counterparties for 2016, compared with $577 million paid to counterparties
for 2015. Additionally, these totals exclude gains and/or losses recognized from hedge ineffectiveness
and from derivatives that did not qualify for hedge accounting. Those items are recorded as a
component of Other (gains) losses, net. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As of January 20, 2017, on an economic basis, the Company had derivative contracts in place related
to expected future fuel consumption as follows:
Maximum percent of estimated fuel consumption covered by
fuel derivative contracts at varying West Texas Intermediate/Brent Crude Oil,
Period Heating Oil, and Gulf Coast Jet Fuel-equivalent price levels (1)
2017 63%
2018 57%
2019 15%
(1) The Company’s hedge position can vary significantly at different price levels, including prices at which the
Company considers “catastrophic” coverage. The percentages provided are not indicative of the Company’s
hedge coverage at every price, but represent the highest level of coverage at a single price. The Company
believes its coverage related to first quarter 2017 is best reflected within the jet fuel forecast price sensitivity
table provided below. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
As a result of applying hedge accounting in prior periods, including related to hedge positions that
have either been offset or settled early on a cash basis, the Company has amounts “frozen” in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”), and these amounts will be recognized in
earnings in future periods when the underlying fuel derivative contracts settle. The following table
displays the Company’s estimated fair value of remaining fuel derivative contracts (not considering the
impact of the cash collateral provided to or received from counterparties - see Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information), as well as the amount of deferred
47
gains/losses in AOCI at December 31, 2016, and the expected future periods in which these items are
expected to settle and/or be recognized in earnings (in millions):
Year
Fair value (liability) of fuel
derivative contracts
at December 31, 2016
Amount of gains (losses) deferred
in AOCI at December 31,
2016 (net of tax)
2017 $ (452) $ (302)
2018 105 (15)
2019 21 3
Total $ (326) $ (314)
Based on forward market prices and the amounts in the above table (and excluding any other
subsequent changes to the fuel hedge portfolio), the Company’s jet fuel costs per gallon could exceed
market (i.e., unhedged) prices during some of these future periods. This is based primarily on expected
future cash settlements associated with fuel derivatives, but excludes any impact associated with the
ineffectiveness of fuel hedges or fuel derivatives that are marked to market because they do not qualify
for hedge accounting. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Assuming no changes to the Company’s current fuel derivative portfolio, but including all previous
hedge activity for fuel derivatives that have not yet settled, and considering only the expected net cash
payments related to hedges that will settle, the Company is providing the below sensitivity table
for first quarter 2017 and full year 2017 jet fuel prices at different crude oil assumptions as of
January 20, 2017, and for expected premium costs associated with settling contracts each period,
respectively.
Estimated economic jet fuel price per gallon,
including taxes
Average Brent Crude Oil
price per barrel 1Q 2017 (2) Full Year 2017 (2)
$35 $1.50 - $1.55 $1.50 - $1.55
$45 $1.75 - $1.80 $1.75 - $1.80
Current Market (1) $1.95 - $2.00 $2.00 - $2.05
$70 $2.20 - $2.25 $2.25 - $2.30
$80 $2.30 - $2.35 $2.35 - $2.40
Estimated premium costs (3) $30 - $35 million $135 - $140 million
(1) Brent crude oil average market prices as of January 20, 2017, were approximately $56 and $57 per barrel for
first quarter 2017 and full year 2017, respectively.
(2) The economic fuel price per gallon sensitivities provided assume the relationship between Brent crude oil and
refined products based on market prices as of January 20, 2017. Economic fuel cost projections do not reflect the
potential impact of special items because the Company cannot reliably predict or estimate the hedge accounting
impact associated with the volatility of the energy markets or the impact to its financial statements in future
periods. Accordingly, the Company believes a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the equivalent
GAAP financial measures for projected results is not meaningful or available without unreasonable effort.
(3) Fuel hedge premium expense is recognized as a component of Other (gains) losses, net.
Maintenance materials and repairs expense for 2016 increased by $40 million, or 4.0 percent,
compared with 2015. On a per ASM basis, Maintenance materials and repairs expense for 2016
decreased 2.8 percent, compared with 2015, as the dollar increases were more than offset by the
48
5.7 percent increase in capacity. On a dollar basis, the majority of the increase was attributable to the
timing of regular maintenance checks and ongoing cabin refresh projects including updates for the
Company’s new Heart cabin interior. These increases were partially offset by lower engine expense as
a result of the early retirement of the Classic fleet, as this decrease in engine repairs was only partially
offset by higher 737-700 engine expense due to increased flight hours. The Company currently expects
Maintenance materials and repairs expense per ASM for first quarter 2017 to be comparable with
fourth quarter 2016 unit cost of 0.66 cents.
Aircraft rentals expense for 2016 decreased by $9 million, or 3.8 percent, compared with 2015. On a
per ASM basis, Aircraft rentals expense decreased 11.8 percent, compared with 2015. On both a dollar
and per ASM basis, the decrease was primarily due to the retirement of five 737-300 leased aircraft
and two 737-500 leased aircraft since 2015, as well as the purchase of five leased 737-300s that were
previously on operating lease during 2016. See the accompanying Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP
Financial Measures for further information. The Company currently expects Aircraft rentals expense
per ASM for first quarter 2017 to be comparable with fourth quarter 2016 unit cost of 0.15 cents.
Landing fees and other rentals expense for 2016 increased by $45 million, or 3.9 percent, compared
with 2015. On a per ASM basis, Landing fees and other rentals expense for 2016 decreased
1.2 percent, compared with 2015, as the dollar increases were more than offset by the 5.7 percent
increase in capacity. On a dollar basis, approximately 70 percent of the increase was due to higher
space rental rates and usage at various airports. The remainder was due to a 3.5 percent increase in
Trips flown coupled with heavier landing weights for the Company’s higher capacity 737- 800 aircraft,
which now make up a larger portion of the Company’s fleet than in 2015. The Company currently
expects Landing fees and other rentals expense per ASM for first quarter 2017 to be comparable with
first quarter 2016.
Depreciation and amortization expense for 2016 increased by $206 million, or 20.3 percent, compared
with 2015. On a per ASM basis, Depreciation and amortization expense increased 13.9 percent,
compared with 2015. On both a dollar and per ASM basis, approximately 60 percent of
the increase was due to the accelerated depreciation expense resulting from a change in the estimated
retirement dates of many of the Company’s owned Classic fleet from mid-2021 to third quarter 2017.
The remainder of the increase was due to the purchase and capital lease of new and used aircraft
since 2015. The Company currently expects Depreciation and amortization expense per ASM for first
quarter 2017 to increase, compared with first quarter 2016, primarily due to the purchase and capital
lease of new and used aircraft since first quarter 2016 as well as depreciation associated with the
implementation of technology assets, partially offset by lower depreciation, year-over-year, related to
the accelerated retirement of the Classic fleet. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information.
The Company incurred no Acquisition and integration costs in 2016, compared with $39 million in
2015. The 2015 costs primarily consisted of Employee training and certain expenses associated with
the grounding and conversion costs resulting from the transition of the Company’s Boeing 717-200
fleet (“B717s”) to Delta Air Lines (“Delta”). See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information.
Other operating expenses for 2016 increased by $272 million, or 12.1 percent, compared with 2015.
On a per ASM basis, Other operating expenses for 2016 increased 6.9 percent, compared with 2015.
On both a dollar and per ASM basis, approximately 30 percent of the increase was due to higher
49
contract programming and consulting expenses associated with large technology projects and
approximately 15 percent of the increase was due to increased personnel expenses. Other operating
expenses for 2016 also increased as the result of a $37 million litigation settlement received
during 2015 which reduced 2015 Other operating expenses, a $22 million lease termination expense as
a result of the Company acquiring five of its Boeing 737-300 aircraft off operating leases, and a
$21 million increase due to an impairment charge related to leased slots at Newark Liberty
International Airport. The remainder was due to revenue related costs driven by the 5.5 percent
increase in Revenue Passengers Carried. The Company currently expects Other operating expenses per
ASM for first quarter 2017 to increase, compared with first quarter 2016.
Other
Other expenses (income) include interest expense, capitalized interest, interest income, and other gains
and losses.
Interest expense for 2016 increased $1 million, or 0.8 percent, compared with 2015, primarily due to
the timing of debt issuances and payoffs in 2015 and 2016.
Capitalized interest for 2016 increased $16 million, or 51.6 percent, compared with 2015, primarily
due to an increase in average progress payment balances for scheduled future aircraft deliveries.
Interest income for 2016 increased $15 million, or 166.7 percent, compared with 2015, primarily due
to higher interest rates coupled with a greater amount of interest earned on cash collateral held by
counterparties. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
Company’s derivatives.
Other (gains) losses, net, primarily includes amounts recorded as a result of the Company’s hedging
activities. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
Company’s hedging activities. The following table displays the components of Other (gains) losses,
net, for the years ended December 31, 2016, and 2015:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2016 2015
Mark-to-market impact from fuel contracts settling in future periods $ 9 $ 373
Ineffectiveness from fuel hedges settling in future periods (11) (9)
Realized ineffectiveness and mark-to-market (gains) or losses 5 72
Premium cost of fuel contracts 153 124
Other 6 (4)
$ 162 $ 556
Income Taxes
The Company’s effective tax rate was 36.8 percent for 2016, compared with 37.3 percent for 2015
primarily due to a decrease in State taxes owed and the Company’s adoption of Accounting Standards
Update 2016-09. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The
Company currently projects a full year 2017 effective tax rate of approximately 37 percent based on
currently forecasted financial results.
50
2015 Compared with 2014
Operating Revenues
Passenger revenues for 2015 increased by $641 million, or 3.6 percent, compared with 2014. Holding
load factor and yield constant, the increase was primarily attributable to a 7.2 percent increase in
capacity as strong Customer demand for low-fare air travel enabled the Company to fill the additional
seats, as evidenced by a Company annual load factor of 83.6 percent. On a unit basis, Passenger
revenue decreased 3.4 percent, year-over-year, largely driven by a 4.7 percent decrease in passenger
revenue yield, year-over-year.
Freight revenues for 2015 increased by $4 million, or 2.3 percent, compared with 2014, primarily due
to increased pounds shipped.
The Company recorded a Special revenue adjustment during 2015 of $172 million. This adjustment
represented a one-time non-cash reduction to the deferred revenue liability as a result of the Agreement
with Chase and the resulting change in accounting methodology. The adjustment is classified as a
special item and thus excluded from the Company’s non-GAAP financial results. See Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for
further information.
Other revenues for 2015 increased by $398 million, or 51.6 percent, compared with 2014, primarily as
a result of the Agreement with Chase and the resulting change in accounting methodology. Ancillary
revenues increased slightly year-over-year, primarily due to an increase in EarlyBird Check-in® and
A1-15 select boarding positions sold at the gate, which was partially offset by the decrease in revenues
from the termination of AirTran passenger service and related ancillary fees.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses for 2015 decreased by $676 million, or 4.1 percent, compared with 2014, while
capacity increased 7.2 percent over the same period. Historically, except for changes in the price of
fuel, changes in Operating expenses for airlines are driven by changes in capacity, or ASMs. The
following table presents the Company’s Operating expenses per ASM for 2015 and 2014, followed by
explanations of these changes on a per ASM basis and/or on a dollar basis:
Year ended December 31, Per ASM Percent
(in cents, except for percentages) 2015 2014 change change
Salaries, wages, and benefits 4.54¢ 4.14¢ 0.40¢ 9.7%
Fuel and oil 2.58 4.04 (1.46) (36.1)
Maintenance materials and repairs 0.72 0.75 (0.03) (4.0)
Aircraft rentals 0.17 0.22 (0.05) (22.7)
Landing fees and other rentals 0.83 0.85 (0.02) (2.4)
Depreciation and amortization 0.72 0.72 — —
Acquisition and integration 0.03 0.10 (0.07) (70.0)
Other operating expenses 1.59 1.68 (0.09) (5.4)
Total 11.18¢ 12.50¢ (1.32)¢ (10.6)%
51
Operating expenses per ASM for 2015 decreased by 10.6 percent, compared with 2014, primarily due
to a decrease in Fuel and oil expense, partially offset by an increase in Salaries, wages, and benefits
expense. On a non-GAAP basis, Operating expenses per ASM for 2015, excluding fuel and special
items, increased 0.1 percent year-over-year primarily due to higher Salaries, wages, and benefits
expense. See the previous Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
Salaries, wages, and benefits expense for 2015 increased by $949 million, or 17.5 percent, compared
with 2014. Salaries, wages, and benefits expense per ASM for 2015 increased 9.7 percent, compared
with 2014. On both a dollar and per ASM basis, approximately half of these increases were the result
of higher salaries primarily due to the accrued $334 million of union bonuses as a result of ongoing
negotiations with various workgroups during 2015, increased training, additional headcount, and
contractual increases. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher profitsharing expense as a
result of significantly higher profits in 2015.
Fuel and oil expense for 2015 decreased by $1.7 billion, or 31.7 percent, compared with 2014. On a per
ASM basis, Fuel and oil expense for 2015 decreased 36.1 percent, compared with 2014. Excluding the
impact of fuel hedge accounting, both the dollar and per ASM decreases were attributable to lower jet
fuel prices. The Company’s average economic jet fuel price per gallon decreased 29.1 percent yearover-year,
from $2.92 for 2014 to $2.07 for 2015. The Company also slightly improved fuel efficiency,
when measured on the basis of ASMs generated per gallon of fuel, primarily as a result of
modernization of the Company’s fleet and a 4.0 percent increase in stage length. Fuel gallons
consumed increased 5.6 percent, compared with 2014, while year-over-year capacity
increased 7.2 percent.
As a result of the Company’s fuel hedging program, the Company recognized losses
totaling $254 million in Fuel and oil expense for 2015, compared with net gains totaling
$28 million for 2014. These totals include cash settlements realized from the settlement of fuel
derivative contracts totaling $577 million paid to counterparties for 2015, compared to
$56 million received from counterparties for 2014, although such totals exclude gains and/or losses
recognized from hedge ineffectiveness and from derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
These impacts are recorded as a component of Other (gains) losses, net.
Maintenance materials and repairs expense for 2015 increased by $27 million, or 2.8 percent,
compared with 2014. On a per ASM basis, Maintenance materials and repairs expense
for 2015 decreased 4.0 percent, compared with 2014, as the dollar increases were more than offset by
the 7.2 percent increase in capacity. On a dollar basis, the majority of the increase was attributable to
the timing of regular airframe maintenance checks, partially offset by reduced engine and avionic
repair expense as a result of the B717 aircraft transitioning out of the Company’s fleet.
Aircraft rentals expense for 2015 decreased by $57 million, or 19.3 percent, compared with 2014. On a
per ASM basis, Aircraft rentals expense decreased 22.7 percent, compared with 2014. On both a dollar
and per ASM basis, the decrease was primarily due to the transition of leased B717 aircraft out of the
Company’s fleet for conversion and delivery to Delta.
Landing fees and other rentals expense for 2015 increased by $55 million, or 5.0 percent, compared
with 2014. On a per ASM basis, Landing fees and other rentals expense for 2015 decreased
2.4 percent, compared with 2014, as the dollar increases were more than offset by the
7.2 percent increase in capacity. On a dollar basis, the majority of the increase was due was due to
52
higher space rental rates at various airports. The remaining increase was due to heavier landing weights
for the Company’s higher capacity 737-800 aircraft.
Depreciation and amortization expense for 2015 increased by $77 million, or 8.2 percent, compared
with 2014. On a per ASM basis, Depreciation and amortization expense remained flat, compared
with 2014. On a dollar basis, the majority of the increase was due to the purchase and capital lease of
new and used aircraft since 2014, the majority of which replaced B717s removed from service in
late 2014.
The Company incurred $39 million in Acquisition and integration costs in 2015, related to the AirTran
integration, compared with $126 million in 2014. This expense primarily consisted of Employee
training, facilities integration, and certain expenses associated with the grounding and conversion costs
resulting from the transition of B717s to Delta.
Other operating expenses for 2015 increased by $37 million, or 1.7 percent, compared with 2014. On a
per ASM basis, Other operating expenses for 2015 decreased 5.4 percent, compared with 2014, as the
dollar increases were more than offset by the 7.2 percent increase in capacity. On a dollar basis,
the increase was equally attributable to higher personnel expenses associated with travel costs of the
Company’s flight crew and credit card fees paid to third parties associated with the increase in
Passenger revenues. These and other smaller increases were partially offset by a decrease in security
expenses as a result of the repeal of the TSA Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee in October 2014 and
a litigation settlement received by the Company in the first quarter of 2015.
Other
Other (gains) losses, net, primarily includes amounts recorded as a result of the Company’s hedging
activities. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
Company’s hedging activities. The following table displays the components of Other (gains) losses,
net, for the years ended December 31, 2015, and 2014:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 2015 2014
Mark-to-market impact from fuel contracts settling in future periods $ 373 $ 251
Ineffectiveness from fuel hedges settling in future periods (9) 5
Realized ineffectiveness and mark-to-market (gains) or losses 72 (4)
Premium cost of fuel contracts 124 62
Other (4) (5)
$ 556 $ 309
Income Taxes
The Company’s effective tax rate was 37.3 percent for 2015, compared with 37.4 percent for 2014.
53
Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (unaudited) (in millions,
except per share and per ASM amounts)
Year ended
December 31, Percent
2016 2015 Change
Total operating revenues, as reported $ 20,425 $ 19,820
Deduct: Special revenue adjustment — (172)
Operating revenues, non-GAAP $ 20,425 $ 19,648 4.0%
Fuel and oil expense, unhedged $ 2,827 $ 3,362
Add: Fuel hedge (gains) losses included in Fuel and oil expense 820 254
Fuel and oil expense, as reported $ 3,647 $ 3,616
Add: Net impact from fuel contracts 202 323
Fuel and oil expense, non-GAAP (economic) $ 3,849 $ 3,939 (2.3)%
Total operating expenses, as reported $ 16,665 $ 15,704
Deduct: Union contract bonuses (356) (334)
Add: Reclassification between Fuel and oil and Other (gains) losses, net,
associated with current period settled contracts 5 72
Add: Contracts settling in the current period, but for which gains and/or
(losses) have been recognized in a prior period* 197 251
Deduct: Acquisition and integration costs — (39)
Add: Litigation settlement — 37
Deduct: Asset impairment (21) —
Deduct: Lease termination expense (22) —
Total operating expenses, non-GAAP $ 16,468 $ 15,691 5.0%
Operating income, as reported $ 3,760 $ 4,116
Deduct: Special revenue adjustment — (172)
Add: Union contract bonuses 356 334
Deduct: Reclassification between Fuel and oil and Other (gains) losses, net,
associated with current period settled contracts (5) (72)
Deduct: Contracts settling in the current period, but for which gains and/or
(losses) have been recognized in a prior period* (197) (251)
Add: Acquisition and integration costs — 39
Deduct: Litigation settlement — (37)
Add: Asset impairment 21 —
Add: Lease termination expense 22 —
Operating income, non-GAAP $ 3,957 $ 3,957 —%
Net income, as reported $ 2,244 $ 2,181
Deduct: Special revenue adjustment — (172)
Add: Union contract bonuses 356 334
Add: Mark-to-market impact from fuel contracts settling in future periods 9 373
Deduct: Ineffectiveness from fuel hedges settling in future periods (11) (9)
Deduct: Other net impact of fuel contracts settling in the current or a prior
period (excluding reclassifications) (197) (251)
Add: Acquisition and integration costs — 39
Deduct: Litigation settlement — (37)
Add: Asset impairment 21 —
Add: Lease termination expense 22 —
Deduct: Net income tax impact from fuel and special items (1) (74) (103)
Net income, non-GAAP $ 2,370 $ 2,355 0.6%
54
Year ended
December 31, Percent
2016 2015 Change
Net income per share, diluted, as reported $ 3.55 $ 3.27
Add (Deduct): Net impact to net income above from fuel contracts
divided by dilutive shares (0.31) 0.17
Add: Impact of special items 0.63 0.24
Deduct: Net income tax impact of fuel and special items (1) (0.12) (0.16)
Net income per share, diluted, non-GAAP $ 3.75 $ 3.52 6.5%
Operating expenses per ASM (cents) 11.22¢ 11.18¢
Deduct: Fuel expense divided by ASMs (2.46) (2.58)
Deduct: Impact of special items (0.27) (0.24)
Operating expenses per ASM, excluding Fuel and oil and special items
(cents), non-GAAP 8.49¢ 8.36¢ 1.6%
* As a result of prior hedge ineffectiveness and/or contracts marked to market through earnings.
(1) Tax amounts for each individual special item are calculated at the Company’s effective rate for the applicable
period and totaled in this line item.
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) (in millions) (unaudited)
Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014
Operating income, as reported $ 3,760 $ 4,116 $ 2,225
Special revenue adjustment (1) — (172) —
Union contract bonuses 356 334 9
Net impact from fuel contracts (202) (323) 28
Acquisition and integration costs — 39 126
Litigation settlement — (37) —
Asset impairment 21 — —
Lease termination expense 22 — —
Operating income, non-GAAP 3,957 3,957 2,388
Net adjustment for aircraft leases (2) 111 114 133
Adjustment for fuel hedge accounting (152) (124) (62)
Adjusted Operating income, non-GAAP $ 3,916 $ 3,947 $ 2,459
Average invested capital (3) $ 12,152 $ 11,037 $ 11,470
Equity adjustment for hedge accounting 886 1,027 104
Adjusted average invested capital $ 13,038 $ 12,064 $ 11,574
ROIC, pre-tax 30.0% 32.7% 21.2%
(1) One-time adjustment related to the execution of the Agreement with Chase and the resulting change in
accounting methodology. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
55
(2) Net adjustment related to presumption that all aircraft in fleet are owned (i.e., the impact of eliminating
aircraft rent expense and replacing with estimated depreciation expense for those same aircraft).
(3) Average invested capital is an average of the five most recent quarter end balances of debt, net present value
of aircraft leases, and equity adjusted for hedge accounting.
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). These GAAP financial statements
include (i) unrealized non-cash adjustments and reclassifications, which can be significant, as a result
of accounting requirements and elections made under accounting pronouncements relating to
derivative instruments and hedging and (ii) other charges and benefits the Company believes are
unusual and/or infrequent in nature and thus may not be indicative of its ongoing operational
performance.
As a result, the Company also provides financial information in this filing that was not prepared in
accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the information prepared in
accordance with GAAP. The Company provides supplemental non-GAAP financial information,
including results that it refers to as “economic,” which the Company’s management utilizes to evaluate
its ongoing financial performance and the Company believes provides additional insight to investors as
supplemental information to its GAAP results. The non-GAAP measures provided that relate to the
Company’s performance on an economic fuel cost basis include Fuel and oil expense, non-GAAP;
Total operating expenses, non-GAAP; Operating income, non-GAAP; Net income, non-GAAP; and
Net income per share, diluted, non-GAAP. The Company’s economic Fuel and oil expense results
differ from GAAP results in that they only include the actual cash settlements from fuel hedge
contracts—all reflected within Fuel and oil expense in the period of settlement. Thus, Fuel and oil
expense on an “economic” basis has historically been utilized by the Company, as well as some of the
other airlines that utilize fuel hedging, as it reflects the Company’s actual net cash outlays for fuel
during the applicable period, inclusive of settled fuel derivative contracts. Any net premium costs paid
related to option contracts are reflected as a component of Other (gains) losses, net, for both GAAP
and non-GAAP (including economic) purposes in the period of contract settlement. The Company
believes these economic results provide a better measure of the impact of the Company’s fuel hedges
on its operating performance and liquidity since they exclude the unrealized, non-cash adjustments and
reclassifications that are recorded in GAAP results in accordance with accounting guidance relating to
derivative instruments, and they reflect all cash settlements related to fuel derivative contracts within
Fuel and oil expense. This enables the Company’s management, as well as investors and analysts, to
consistently assess the Company’s operating performance on a year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter
basis after considering all efforts in place to manage fuel expense. However, because these measures
are not determined in accordance with GAAP, such measures are susceptible to varying calculations,
and not all companies calculate the measures in the same manner. As a result, the aforementioned
measures, as presented, may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other
companies.
Further information on (i) the Company’s fuel hedging program, (ii) the requirements of accounting for
derivative instruments, and (iii) the causes of hedge ineffectiveness and/or mark-to-market gains or
losses from derivative instruments is included in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition, the Company’s GAAP results in the applicable periods include other charges or benefits
that are deemed “special items” that the Company believes are not indicative of its ongoing operations
56
and make its results difficult to compare to prior periods, anticipated future periods, or to its
competitors’ results. Financial measures identified as non-GAAP (or as excluding special items) have
been adjusted to exclude special items. Special items include:
1. A one-time $172 million Special revenue adjustment in July 2015 as a result of the
Agreement with Chase and the resulting required change in accounting methodology. This
increase to revenue represented a nonrecurring required acceleration of revenues associated
with the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2009-13;
2. Union contract bonuses recorded for certain workgroups. As the bonuses would only be paid
at ratification of the associated tentative agreement and would not represent an ongoing
expense to the Company, management believes its results for the associated periods are more
usefully compared if the impacts of ratification bonus amounts are excluded from results.
Generally, union contract agreements cover a specified three- to five- year period, although
such contracts officially never expire, and the agreed upon terms remain in place until a
revised agreement is reached, which can be several years following the amendable date;
3. Expenses associated with the Company’s acquisition and integration of AirTran. Such
expenses were primarily incurred during the acquisition and integration period of the two
companies from 2011 through 2015 as a result of the Company’s acquisition of AirTran,
which closed on May 2, 2011. The exclusion of these expenses provides investors with a
more applicable basis with which to compare results in future periods now that the
integration process has been completed;
4. A gain resulting from a litigation settlement received in January 2015. This cash settlement
meaningfully lowered Other operating expenses during the applicable period and the
Company does not expect a similar impact on its cost structure in the future;
5. A noncash impairment charge related to leased slots at Newark Liberty International Airport
as a result of the FAA announcement in April 2016 that this airport was being changed to a
Level 2 schedule-facilitated airport from its previous designation as Level 3; and
6. Lease termination costs recorded during 2016 as a result of the Company acquiring five of its
Boeing 737-300 aircraft off operating leases, as part of the Company’s strategic effort to
phase out its Classic aircraft from operations by the end of third quarter 2017 in the most
economically advantageous manner possible. The Company had not budgeted for these early
lease termination costs, as they were subject to negotiations being concluded with the third
party lessors. The Company recorded the fair value of the aircraft, as well as any associated
remaining obligations to the balance sheet as debt.
Because management believes each of these items can distort the trends associated with the
Company’s ongoing performance as an airline, the Company believes that evaluation of its financial
performance can be enhanced by a supplemental presentation of results that exclude the impact of
these items in order to enhance consistency and comparativeness with results in prior periods that do
not include such items and as a basis for evaluating operating results in future periods. The following
measures are often provided, excluding special items, and utilized by the Company’s management,
analysts, and investors to enhance comparability of year-over-year results, as well as to compare
results to other airlines: Operating revenues, non-GAAP; Total operating expenses, non-GAAP;
Operating income, non-GAAP; Net income, non-GAAP; Net income per share, diluted, non-GAAP;
and Operating expenses per ASM, non-GAAP, excluding fuel and special items.
57
The Company has also provided return on invested capital, which is calculated, in part, using nonGAAP
financial measures. The Company believes return on invested capital is a meaningful measure
because it quantifies how well the Company generates operating income relative to the capital it has
invested in its business. Although return on invested capital is commonly used as a measure of capital
efficiency, definitions of return on invested capital differ; therefore, the Company is providing an
explanation of its calculation for return on invested capital (before taxes and excluding special items)
in the accompanying reconciliation.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Net cash provided by operating activities for 2016, 2015, and 2014 was $4.3 billion, $3.2 billion, and
$2.9 billion, respectively. Operating cash inflows are primarily derived from providing air
transportation to Customers. The vast majority of tickets are purchased prior to the day on which travel
is provided and, in some cases, several months before the anticipated travel date. Operating cash
outflows are related to the recurring expenses of airline operations. The operating cash flows for 2016,
2015, and 2014 were impacted primarily by the Company’s results of operations, as adjusted for noncash
items as well as changes in the Air traffic liability and Accrued liabilities balances. Operating
cash flows also can be significantly impacted by the Company’s fuel and interest rate hedge positions
and the corresponding cash collateral requirements associated with those positions. The Company has
the ability to post aircraft in lieu of cash collateral in certain situations. See Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. During 2016, the Company had net cash
inflows of $535 million in cash collateral from derivative counterparties, compared with providing
$570 million and $233 million in cash collateral to derivative counterparties in 2015 and 2014,
respectively. Cash flows related to the purchase of derivatives utilized to offset a portion of the
Company’s future fuel hedge positions prior to their settlement, as well as new fuel derivatives, which
are also classified as Other, net, operating cash flows, were net outflows of $165 million in 2016, net
outflows of $556 million in 2015, and net outflows of $247 million in 2014. Net cash provided by
operating activities is primarily used to finance capital expenditures, repay debt, fund stock
repurchases, pay dividends, and provide working capital.
Net cash used in investing activities for 2016, 2015, and 2014 was $2.3 billion, $1.9 billion, and
$1.7 billion, respectively. Investing activities in 2016, 2015, and 2014 included payments for new
aircraft delivered to the Company, progress payments for future aircraft deliveries, and purchases and
sales of short-term and noncurrent investments, which fluctuate primarily based on anticipated working
capital needs. Investing activities in 2016, 2015, and 2014 also included payments associated with
airport construction projects, denoted as Assets constructed for others. See Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information. During 2016, the Company’s purchases and sales of
short-term and noncurrent investments resulted in net cash used of $125 million, compared with net
cash provided of $237 million and $105 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company
currently estimates its 2017 capital expenditures will be approximately $2.3 billion.
Net cash used in financing activities for 2016, 2015, and 2014 was $1.9 billion, $1.0 billion, and
$1.2 billion, respectively. During 2016, the Company repaid $591 million in debt, convertible notes,
and capital lease obligations, compared with $213 million and $561 million during 2015 and 2014,
respectively. During 2016, the Company borrowed $215 million under a secured term loan agreement
and, under its shelf registration statement, issued $300 million 3.00 percent senior unsecured notes due
2026, compared with the 2015 issuance of $500 million 2.65 percent senior unsecured notes due 2020
under its shelf registration statement, and the 2014 issuance of $300 million 2.75 percent senior
58
unsecured notes due 2019 under its shelf registration statement. See Note 6 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information. The Company repurchased approximately $1.8 billion of
its outstanding common stock through authorized share repurchases during 2016, compared with
repurchases of $1.2 billion and $955 million during 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company also
paid $222 million in dividends to Shareholders during 2016, compared with $180 million in 2015 and
$139 million in 2014. Although the Company currently intends to continue paying dividends on a
quarterly basis for the foreseeable future, the Company’s Board of Directors may change the timing,
amount, and payment of dividends on the basis of results of operations, financial condition, cash
requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors.
The Company is a “well-known seasoned issuer” and currently has an effective shelf registration
statement registering an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities for future sales. The
Company currently intends to use the proceeds from any future securities sales off this shelf
registration statement for general corporate purposes.
The Company has access to a $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility expiring in August 2021.
The revolving credit agreement has an accordion feature that would allow the Company, subject to,
among other things, the procurement of incremental commitments, to increase the size of the facility
to $1.5 billion. Interest on the facility is based on the Company’s credit ratings at the time of
borrowing. At the Company’s current ratings, the interest cost would be LIBOR plus a spread of
112.5 basis points. The facility contains a financial covenant requiring a minimum coverage ratio of
adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. As of December 31, 2016, the Company was
in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit
facility.
As of May 4, 2016, the Company completed its previously authorized $1.5 billion share repurchase
program, bringing in a total of 37.3 million shares over the course of the program. On May 18, 2016,
the Company’s Board of Directors approved a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program. Following
the Board of Directors’ authorization of the Company’s new $2.0 billion share repurchase program, the
Company entered into the following share repurchases:
Share repurchases Shares received Cash paid
May 2016 Accelerated Share Repurchase Program 12,268,280 $ 500,000,000
Third Quarter 2016 Accelerated Share Repurchase Program 6,666,261 250,000,000
Fourth Quarter 2016 Accelerated Share Repurchase Program 4,723,420 (1) 300,000,000
Total 23,657,961 $ 1,050,000,000
(1) This represents an estimated 75 percent of shares to be purchased by the Company under the Fourth Quarter
2016 Accelerated Share Repurchase Program. The specific number of shares that the Company ultimately will
repurchase under the Fourth Quarter 2016 Accelerated Share Repurchase Program will be determined based
generally on a discount to the volume-weighted average price per share of the Company’s common stock during
a calculation period to be completed in February 2017.
The Company maintained its investment grade credit ratings of “Baa1” with Moody’s, “BBB+” with
Fitch, and “BBB” with Standard & Poor’s.
The Company has a large net deferred tax liability on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The deferral of
income taxes has resulted in a significant benefit to the Company and its liquidity position. Since the
59
Company purchases the majority of the aircraft it acquires, it has been able to utilize accelerated
depreciation methods (including bonus depreciation) available under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, in 2016 and in previous years, which has enabled the Company to defer the cash tax
payments associated with these depreciable assets to future years. Based on the Company’s scheduled
future aircraft deliveries from Boeing and existing tax laws in effect, the Company will continue to
defer a portion of cash income taxes to future years. The Company has paid in the past, and will
continue to pay in the future, significant cash taxes to the various taxing jurisdictions where it operates.
The Company expects to be able to continue to meet such obligations utilizing cash and investments on
hand, as well as cash generated from its ongoing operations.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Contingent Liabilities and
Commitments
The Company has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases
of aircraft, payment of debt, and lease arrangements. During second quarter 2016, the Company
revised its future firm aircraft order book. Firm deliveries previously scheduled between 2019 and
2022 were deferred to 2023 through 2025 in the restructured order book. This resulted in a $1.9 billion
deferral of capital spending beyond 2020. During 2016, the Company also exercised nine 737-800
options for 2018. For aircraft commitments with Boeing, the Company is required to make cash
deposits toward the purchase of aircraft in advance. These deposits are classified as Deposits on flight
equipment purchase contracts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet until the aircraft is delivered, at which
time deposits previously made are deducted from the final purchase price of the aircraft and are
reclassified as Flight equipment. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a complete
table of the Company’s firm deliveries and options for Boeing 737-700, 737-800, 737-7, and
737-8 aircraft.
The leasing of aircraft (including the sale and leaseback of aircraft) provides flexibility to the Company
as a source of financing. Although the Company is responsible for all maintenance, insurance, and
expense associated with operating leased aircraft, and retains the risk of loss for these aircraft, it has
not made guarantees to the lessors regarding the residual value (or market value) of the aircraft at the
end of the lease terms. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had 212 leased aircraft, including
78 B717s subleased to Delta. Of these leased aircraft, 159 are under operating leases, including
76 B717s subleased to Delta. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on this transaction. Assets and obligations under operating leases are not included in the
Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Disclosure of the contractual obligations associated with the
Company’s leased aircraft is included below.
The Company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in
the ordinary course of business and may choose to provide letters of credit in place of posting cash
collateral related to its fuel hedging positions. Although the letters of credit are off-balance sheet, the
majority of the obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Outstanding letters of credit totaled $179 million at December 31, 2016.
60
The following table aggregates the Company’s material expected contractual obligations and
commitments as of December 31, 2016:
Obligations by period (in millions)
Contractual obligations 2017 2018 - 2019 2020 - 2021 Thereafter Total
Long-term debt (1) $ 497 $ 777 $ 823 $ 611 $ 2,708
Interest commitments - fixed (2) 79 105 58 89 331
Interest commitments - floating (3) 26 63 30 18 137
Operating lease commitments (4) 592 904 542 1,297 3,335
Capital lease commitments (5) 80 158 152 353 743
Aircraft purchase commitments (6) 1,127 1,507 1,773 5,119 9,526
Other commitments 172 186 79 7 444
Total contractual obligations $ 2,573 $ 3,700 $ 3,457 $ 7,494 $ 17,224
(1) Includes principal only. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(2) Related to fixed-rate debt (either at issuance or through swaps) only.
(3) Interest obligations associated with floating-rate debt (either at issuance or through swaps) is estimated
utilizing forward interest rate curves as of December 31, 2016, and can be subject to significant fluctuation.
(4) Includes Love Field Modernization Program commitment amounts, and includes the impact of the B717
lease/sublease transaction entered into in 2012. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(5) Includes principal and interest on capital leases.
(6) Firm orders from Boeing.
The Company believes that its current liquidity position, including unrestricted cash and short-term
investments of $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2016, anticipated future internally generated funds from
operations, and its fully available, unsecured revolving credit facility of $1.0 billion that expires in
August 2021, will enable it to meet its future known obligations in the ordinary course of business. The
revolving credit agreement has an accordion feature that would allow the Company, subject to, among
other things, the procurement of incremental commitments, to increase the size of the facility to
$1.5 billion. However, if a liquidity need were to arise, the Company believes it has access to financing
arrangements because of its current investment grade credit ratings, large value of unencumbered
assets, and modest leverage, which should enable it to meet its ongoing capital, operating, and other
liquidity requirements. The Company will continue to consider various borrowing or leasing options to
maximize liquidity and supplement cash requirements as necessary.
Airport Projects
The Company has commitments associated with various airport improvement projects that will impact
its future liquidity needs in differing ways. These projects include the construction of new facilities and
the rebuilding or modernization of existing facilities and are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Dallas Love Field
For the rebuilding of the facilities at Dallas Love Field, the Company guaranteed principal, premium,
and interest on $456 million in bonds issued by the Love Field Airport Modernization Corporation
(“LFAMC”) that were utilized to fund the majority of the project. The amount of bonds outstanding as
of December 31, 2016 was $432 million. Repayment of the bonds is through the “Facilities Payments”
61
described below. Reimbursement of the Company for its payment of Facilities Payments is made
through recurring ground rents, fees, and other revenues collected at the airport.
Prior to the issuance of the bonds by the LFAMC, the Company entered into two separate funding
agreements: (i) a “Facilities Agreement” pursuant to which the Company is obligated to make debt
service payments on the principal and interest amounts associated with the bonds (“Facilities
Payments”), less other sources of funds the City of Dallas may apply to the repayment of the bonds
(including but not limited to passenger facility charges collected from passengers originating from the
airport); and (ii) a “Revenue Credit Agreement” pursuant to which the City of Dallas reimburses the
Company for the Facilities Payments made by the Company.
A majority of the monies transferred from the City of Dallas to the Company under the Revenue Credit
Agreement originate from a reimbursement account created in the “Use and Lease Agreement”
between the City of Dallas and the Company. The Use and Lease Agreement is a 20-year agreement
providing for, among other things, the Company’s lease of space at the Airport from the City of Dallas.
The remainder of such monies transferred from the City of Dallas to the Company under the Revenue
Credit Agreement originates from (i) use and lease agreements with other airlines, (ii) various
concession agreements, and (iii) other airport miscellaneous revenues.
The Company’s liquidity could be impacted by this project to the extent there are timing differences
between the Company’s payment of the Facilities Payments pursuant to the Facilities Agreement and
the transfer of monies back to the Company pursuant to the Revenue Credit Agreement; however, the
Company does not currently expect that to occur. The project has not had a significant impact on the
Company’s capital resources or financial position.
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport
The Company has committed to oversee and manage the design and construction of Fort-LauderdaleHollywood
International Airport’s Terminal 1 Modernization Project, including the design and
construction of a new five-gate Concourse A with an international processing facility, at a cost not to
exceed $333 million. Funding for the project has come directly from Broward County aviation sources,
but flows through the Company in its capacity as manager of the project. In general, as work is being
completed on the project by various contractors, invoices are submitted to Broward County for initial
payment to the Company, which then make such payments to the contractors performing the work.
The Company’s liquidity could be impacted by this project to the extent there are instances in which
the Company chooses to make payments to contractors prior to receiving initial payment from Broward
County, although the Company currently does not expect this to occur often based on its past
experience with smaller projects conducted at the airport. The project is not expected to have a
significant impact on the Company’s capital resources or financial position. Major construction on the
project began during third quarter 2015 and is estimated to be substantially completed by mid-2017.
Houston William P. Hobby Airport
The Company oversaw and managed the construction, at Houston William P. Hobby Airport, of a new
five-gate international terminal with international passenger processing facilities, expansion of the
existing security checkpoint, and upgrades to the Southwest ticketing counter area. The Company and
the City of Houston (“City”) entered into an Airport Use and Lease Agreement (“Lease”) to control the
execution of this expansion and the financial terms thereof. The project cost approximately
62
$150 million, of which $22 million was considered proprietary and thus not classified as Assets
constructed for others. The Company provided the funding for, and management over, the project. In
return, the capital cost portion of the rent the Company pays for the international facility is waived
from the initial occupancy until the expiration of the Lease. However, the City has the option at any
time during the term of the Lease to reimburse the Company’s investment at the then-unamortized cost
of the facility. This purchase would trigger payment of the previously waived capital cost component
of rents owed the City. Additionally, a small portion of the project qualified for rental credits that have
been utilized against a portion of the Company’s 2016 lease payments at the airport.
The Company’s liquidity has been impacted by this project from the point of initial funding through
the time at which it receives monthly credits, and whether or not the City chooses to buy out the
Company’s investment prior to the full amortization of the project. The project did not have a
significant impact on the Company’s capital resources or financial position. Construction began
during third quarter 2013 and was effectively completed in October 2015, at which time the Company
began operating from the new facility.
Los Angeles International Airport
In March 2013, the Company executed a lease agreement with Los Angeles World Airports
(“LAWA”), which owns and operates Los Angeles International Airport. Under the lease agreement,
which was amended in June 2014, the Company is overseeing and managing the design, development,
financing, construction, and commissioning of the airport’s Terminal 1 Modernization Project (the
“Project”) at a cost not to exceed $526 million. The Project is being funded primarily using the
Regional Airports Improvement Corporation (“RAIC”), which is a quasi-governmental special purpose
entity that acts as a conduit borrower under a syndicated credit facility provided by a group of lenders.
Loans made under the credit facility are being used to fund the development of the Project, and the
outstanding loans will be repaid with the proceeds of LAWA’s payments to purchase completed
Project phases. The Company has guaranteed the obligations of the RAIC under the credit facility.
The Company’s liquidity could be impacted by this project under certain circumstances; however, the
Company does not expect this to occur based on its past experience with other projects. The project is
not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s capital resources or financial position.
Construction on the Project began during 2014 and is estimated to be completed during 2018.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The
Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the Company’s
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated
Financial Statements and accompanying footnotes. The Company’s estimates and assumptions are
based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. However, actual results may
differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. Critical accounting policies and
estimates are defined as those that both (i) are most important to the portrayal of the Company’s
financial condition and results and (ii) require management’s most subjective judgments. The
Company’s most critical accounting policies and estimates are described below.
63
Revenue Recognition
Tickets sold for Passenger air travel are initially deferred as Air traffic liability. Passenger revenue is
recognized and Air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place).
Air traffic liability primarily represents tickets sold for future travel dates and funds that are past flight date
and remain unused. The balance in Air traffic liability, which includes a portion of the Company’s liability
associated with its frequent flyer program, fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns,
fare sale activity, and activity associated with the Company’s frequent flyer program.
For air travel on Southwest, the amount of tickets that will expire unused are estimated and recognized
in Passenger revenue once the scheduled flight date has passed. Estimating the amount of tickets that
will expire unused involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. The majority of Southwest’s
tickets sold are nonrefundable, which is the primary source of unused tickets. Southwest has a No
Show policy that applies to nonrefundable fares that are not canceled or changed by a Customer at least
ten minutes prior to a flight’s scheduled departure. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information. According to Southwest’s current “Contract of Carriage,” all
refundable tickets that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for another flight up to a
year from the date of sale, or some tickets can be refunded. This policy also applies to unused
Customer funds that may be the result of an exchange downgrade. Fully refundable tickets rarely
expire unused. Estimates of tickets that will expire unused are based on historical experience over
many years. Southwest has consistently applied this accounting method to estimate revenue from
unused tickets at the date of scheduled travel.
Events and circumstances outside of historical fare sale activity or historical Customer travel patterns
can result in actual spoiled tickets differing significantly from estimates. The Company evaluates its
estimates within a narrow range of acceptable amounts. If actual spoilage results in an amount outside
of this range, estimates and assumptions are reviewed and adjustments to Air traffic liability and to
Passenger revenue are recorded, as necessary. Additional factors that may affect estimated spoiled
tickets include, but may not be limited to, changes to the Company’s ticketing policies, the Company’s
refund, exchange, and unused funds policies, the mix of refundable and nonrefundable fares,
promotional fare activity, and the impact of the economic environment on Customer behavior. The
Company’s estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with
any estimates, actual spoiled tickets may vary from estimated amounts. During 2014, the Company
revised assumptions regarding Customer behavior subsequent to the implementation of its No Show
policy. Consequently, the Company’s estimate of the amount of spoiled tickets recorded during 2014
was approximately 15 percent higher than what it believed its historical averages would indicate for
that year. The Company believes the change in policy resulted in a permanent shift in Customer
behavior for 2014 and all subsequent periods, barring any future modifications to the Company’s
ticketing policies. The Company believes these estimates are supported by actual data and are
reasonable given the underlying fact patterns.
The Company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for future spoiled tickets would
be reported based on other reasonable assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical
experience and other data available at the time estimates were made.
Accounting for Long-Lived Assets
Flight equipment and related assets make up the majority of the Company’s long-lived assets. Flight
equipment primarily relates to the 640 Boeing 737 aircraft in the Company’s fleet at December 31,
64
2016, which are either owned or on capital lease. The remaining 83 Boeing 737 aircraft in the
Company’s fleet at December 31, 2016, are operated under operating leases. The Company also has
88 Boeing 717 aircraft, which are part of the lease/sublease with Delta. As these aircraft are not in
service for the Company, they are not included in the fleet count as of December 31, 2016 or 2015. See
Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In accounting for long-lived
assets, the Company must make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected
residual values of the assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and
their future expected cash flows.
The following table shows a breakdown of the Company’s long-lived asset groups along with
information about estimated useful lives and residual values for new assets generally purchased from
the manufacturer and assets constructed for others:
Estimated
useful life
Estimated
residual value
Airframes and engines 23 to 25 years 2 to 20 percent
Aircraft parts Fleet life 4 percent
Assets constructed for others 25 to 30 years 17 to 25 percent
Ground property and equipment 5 to 30 years 0 to 10 percent
In estimating the lives and expected residual values of its aircraft, the Company primarily has relied
upon actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types, current and projected future market
information, and recommendations from Boeing. Aircraft estimated useful lives are based on the
number of “cycles” flown (one take-off and landing) as well as the aircraft age. The Company has
made a conversion of cycles into years based on both historical and anticipated future utilization of the
aircraft. Subsequent revisions to these estimates, which can be significant, could be caused by changes
to aircraft maintenance programs, changes in utilization of the aircraft (actual cycles during a given
period of time), governmental regulations on aging aircraft, and changing market prices of new and
used aircraft of the same or similar types. The Company evaluates its estimates and assumptions each
reporting period and, when warranted, adjusts these estimates and assumptions. For example, during
2016, the Company accelerated the estimated retirement dates of its Classic 737 fleet from mid-2021 to
no later than third quarter 2017, resulting in an additional $123 million in depreciation expense
recorded during the year. Generally, these adjustments are accounted for on a prospective basis
through depreciation and amortization expense. See Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information.
The Company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for expected lives, expected
residual values, and impairment evaluations would be made or reported based on other reasonable
assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time
estimates were made.
Financial Derivative Instruments
The Company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with
changing jet fuel prices. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for more
information on these risk management activities, and see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on the Company’s fuel hedging program and financial derivative
instruments.
65
All derivatives are required to be reflected at fair value and recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. At December 31, 2016, the Company was a party to over 500 separate financial derivative
instruments related to its fuel hedging program for the years 2017 through 2019. Changes in the fair
values of these instruments can vary dramatically based on changes in the underlying commodity
prices. For example, during 2016, market “spot” prices for Brent crude oil peaked at a high of
approximately $57 per barrel and hit a low price of approximately $28 per barrel. During 2015, market
spot prices ranged from a high of approximately $68 per barrel to a low of approximately $36 per
barrel. Market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels,
weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, the value of the U.S. dollar, geopolitical events,
and general economic conditions, among other items. The financial derivative instruments utilized by
the Company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, call spreads, put spreads,
and fixed price swap agreements.
The Company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in “over-thecounter”
markets. Since the majority of the Company’s financial derivative instruments are not traded
on a market exchange, the Company estimates their fair values. Depending on the type of instrument,
the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with
assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. Also, since there
is not a reliable forward market for jet fuel beyond approximately 24 months, the Company must
estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in
offsetting changes to those prices. Forward jet fuel prices are estimated through the observation of
similar commodity futures prices (such as crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) and adjusted
based on variations of those like commodities to the Company’s ultimate expected price to be paid for
jet fuel at the specific locations in which the Company hedges.
Fair values for financial derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices are estimated prior to the
time that the financial derivative instruments settle and the time that jet fuel is purchased and
consumed, respectively. However, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and
the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in
the financial statements. Although the Company continues to use a prospective assessment to
determine that commodities continue to qualify for hedge accounting in specific locations where the
Company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future.
This is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with
historical price changes. Increased volatility in these commodity markets for an extended period of
time, especially if such volatility were to worsen, could cause the Company to lose hedge accounting
altogether for the commodities used in its fuel hedging program, which would create further volatility
in the Company’s GAAP financial results.
Estimating the fair value of these fuel derivative instruments and forward prices for jet fuel will also
result in changes in their fair values from period to period and thus determine their accounting
treatment. To the extent that the change in the estimated fair value of a fuel derivative instrument
differs from the change in the estimated price of the associated jet fuel to be purchased, both on a
cumulative and a period-to-period basis, ineffectiveness of the fuel hedge can result. This could result
in the immediate recording of non-cash charges or income, representing the change in the fair value of
the derivative, even though the derivative instrument may not expire/settle until a future period.
Likewise, if a derivative contract ceases to qualify for hedge accounting, the change in the fair value of
the derivative instrument is recorded every period to Other (gains) and losses, net in the Consolidated
Statement of Income in the period of the change.
66
Ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related
commodities, especially given the past volatility in the prices of refined products. Due to the volatility
in markets for crude oil and related products, the Company is unable to predict the amount of
ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which could be determined on a
derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity. This may result, and has
historically resulted, in increased volatility in the Company’s financial statements. The amount of
hedge ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses due to the change in fair value of derivative
contracts settling in future periods, recorded during historical periods, has been due to a number of
factors. These factors include: the significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative
positions the Company holds, significant weather events that have affected refinery capacity and the
production of refined products, and the volatility of the different types of products the Company uses
for mitigation of fuel price volatility. The discontinuation of hedge accounting for specific hedges and
for specific refined products, such as unleaded gasoline, can also be a result of these factors.
Depending on the level at which the Company is hedged at any point in time, as the fair value of the
Company’s hedge positions fluctuate in amount from period to period, there could be continued
variability recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income, and furthermore, the amount of hedge
ineffectiveness and unrealized gains or losses recorded in earnings may be material. This is primarily
because small differences in the correlation of crude oil related products could be leveraged over large
volumes.
The Company continually looks for better and more accurate methodologies in forecasting expected
future cash flows relating to its jet fuel hedging program. These estimates are an important component
used in the measurement of effectiveness for the Company’s fuel hedges. The current methodology
used by the Company in forecasting forward jet fuel prices is primarily based on the idea that different
types of commodities are statistically better predictors of forward jet fuel prices, depending on specific
geographic locations in which the Company hedges. The Company then adjusts for certain items, such
as transportation costs, that are stated in fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors, in order to estimate
the actual price paid for jet fuel associated with each hedge. This methodology for estimating expected
future cash flows (i.e., jet fuel prices) has been consistently applied during 2016, 2015, and 2014, and
has not changed for either assessing or measuring hedge ineffectiveness during these periods.
The Company believes it is unlikely that materially different estimates for the fair value of financial
derivative instruments and forward jet fuel prices would be made or reported based on other reasonable
assumptions or conditions suggested by actual historical experience and other data available at the time
estimates were made.
Fair Value Measurements
The Company utilizes unobservable (Level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of certain assets and
liabilities. At December 31, 2016, these consisted of a portion of its fuel derivative option contracts,
which were a net liability of $258 million.
The Company determines the fair value of fuel derivative option contracts utilizing an option pricing
model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived from
information available in publicly quoted markets, or are quoted by its counterparties. In situations
where the Company obtains inputs via quotes from its counterparties, it verifies the reasonableness of
these quotes via similar quotes from another counterparty as of each date for which financial
statements are prepared. The Company has consistently applied these valuation techniques in all
periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available for the types of
67
derivative contracts it holds. Due to the fact that certain inputs used in determining estimated fair value
of its option contracts are considered unobservable (primarily implied volatility), the Company has
categorized these option contracts as Level 3.
As discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, any changes in fair value of cash
flow hedges that are considered to be effective, as defined, are offset within AOCI until the period in
which the expected future cash flow impacts earnings. Any changes in the fair value of fuel derivatives
that are ineffective, as defined, or that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are reflected in earnings
within Other (gains) losses, net, in the period of the change. Because the Company has extensive
historical experience in valuing the derivative instruments it holds, and such experience is continually
evaluated against its counterparties each period when such instruments expire and are settled for cash,
the Company believes it is unlikely that an independent third party would value the Company’s
derivative contracts at a significantly different amount than what is reflected in the Company’s
financial statements. In addition, the Company also has bilateral credit provisions in some of its
counterparty agreements, which provide for parties (or the Company) to provide cash collateral when
the fair value of fuel derivatives with a single party exceeds certain threshold levels. Since this cash
collateral is based on the estimated fair value of the Company’s outstanding fuel derivative contracts,
this provides further validation to the Company’s estimate of fair values.
Frequent Flyer Accounting
The Company utilizes estimates in the recognition of liabilities associated with its frequent flyer
program. These estimates primarily include the liability associated with Rapid Rewards frequent flyer
member (“Member”) account balances that are expected to be redeemed for travel or other products at
a future date. Frequent flyer account balances include points earned through flights taken, points sold
to Customers, or points earned through business partners participating in the frequent flyer program.
Under the Southwest Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, Members earn points for every dollar
spent. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the fare and fare class purchased,
with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g.,
Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights
are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. Likewise, the amount of
points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare and fare class purchased. Under the
program, (i) Members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every
flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire so long as the Rapid Rewards Member has
points-earning activity during a 24-month time period. In addition, Southwest co-branded Chase Visa
credit card holders are able to redeem their points for items other than travel on Southwest Airlines,
such as international flights on other airlines, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets,
and more. In addition to earning points for revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid
Rewards Partners, Rapid Rewards Members also have the ability to purchase, gift, and transfer points,
as well as the ability to donate points to selected charities.
The Company utilizes the incremental cost method of accounting for points earned through flights
taken in its frequent flyer program. Liabilities are recorded for the estimated incremental cost of
providing free travel as points are being earned and companion passes earned. The liabilities recorded
represent the total number of points expected to be redeemed by Members, regardless of whether the
Members may have enough to qualify for a full travel award. The incremental cost liabilities are
primarily composed of direct Passenger costs such as fuel, food, and other operational costs, but do not
68
include any contribution to fixed overhead costs or profit. At December 31, 2016, the incremental cost
liabilities were approximately $63 million.
The Company also sells frequent flyer points and related services to business partners participating in
the frequent flyer program. The majority of the points sold to business partners are through the
Southwest co-branded Chase Visa credit card. Prior to third quarter 2015, funds received from the sale
of points associated with these agreements were accounted for under the residual method. Under the
residual method, the Company estimated the percent of the amount received from frequent flyer points
sold associated with Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card that related to free travel. The
estimated amounts associated with free travel were deferred and recognized as Passenger revenue
when the ultimate free travel awards were flown. During third quarter 2015, the Company executed an
amended co-branded credit card agreement (“Agreement”) with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”),
which materially modified the previously existing agreement between Chase and the Company.
Consideration received as part of this Agreement is subject to Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”)
2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements—a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues
Task Force. The modified Agreement has the following multiple elements: travel points to be awarded;
use of the Southwest Airlines’ brand and access to Rapid Reward Member lists; advertising elements;
and the Company’s resource team. Under ASU 2009-13, these deliverables are accounted for
separately and allocation of consideration from the Agreement is determined based on the relative
selling price of each deliverable. The application of ASU 2009-13 to the Agreement decreases the
relative value of the air transportation deliverables that the Company records as deferred revenue (and
ultimately Passenger revenues when redeemed awards are flown) and increases the relative value of
the marketing-related deliverables recorded in Other revenues at the time these marketing-related
deliverables are provided. This is principally due to the previous application of the residual method,
which effectively applied the entire discount associated with the agreement to the marketing
deliverables.
Significant management judgment was used to estimate the selling price of each of the deliverables.
The objective was to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or
service was sold on a stand-alone basis. The Company determined the best estimate of selling price by
considering multiple inputs and methods including, but not limited to, the estimated selling price of
comparable travel, discounted cash flows, brand value, published selling prices, number of points
awarded, and the number of points redeemed. The Company estimated the selling prices and volumes
over the term of the Agreement in order to determine the allocation of proceeds to each of the multiple
deliverables. The Company records passenger revenue related to air transportation and certificates for
discounted companion travel when the transportation is delivered. A 1.0 percent increase or decrease in
the Company’s estimate of the standalone selling prices resulting in an allocation of proceeds to air
transportation would have changed the Company’s Operating revenues by less than $14 million for
2016.
The Company followed the transition approach of ASU 2009-13, which required that the Company’s
existing deferred revenue balance, classified within Air traffic liability, be adjusted to reflect the value,
on a relative selling price basis, of any undelivered element remaining at the date of contract
modification. The relative selling price of the undelivered element (air transportation) was lower than
the rate at which it had been deferred under the previous contract and the Company recorded a
one-time, non-cash adjustment to decrease frequent flyer deferred revenue and increase revenue
through the recording of a Special revenue adjustment of $172 million. In addition, 2015 and 2016
Operating revenues increased by an estimated net $255 million and $261 million, respectively, as a
69
result of the amended Agreement with Chase and the resulting July 1, 2015, change in accounting
methodology. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Under its current program, Southwest estimates the portion of frequent flyer points that will not be
redeemed. In estimating spoilage, the Company takes into account the Member’s past behavior, as well
as several factors related to the Member’s account that are expected to be indicative of the likelihood
of future point redemption. These factors include, but are not limited to, tenure with program, points
accrued in the program, and whether or not the customer has a co-branded credit card. During
fourth quarter 2014, the Company obtained sufficient historical behavioral data to develop a predictive
statistical model to analyze the amount of spoilage expected for points sold to business partners. The
Company updates this model at least annually, and applies the new spoilage rates effective October 1st
each year, or more frequently if required by changes in the business. The rate applied, as of October 1,
2014, accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate, resulted in an increase in Passenger revenue
of approximately $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and an increase in Passenger
revenue of approximately $115 million for the first nine months of 2015. The new spoilage rates
applied in 2015 and 2016 did not have a material impact to Passenger revenues during fourth quarter
2015 or full year 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2016, based on actual redemptions of points
sold to business partners, a hypothetical one percentage point change in the estimated spoilage rate
would have resulted in a change to Passenger revenue of approximately $40 million (an increase in
spoilage would have resulted in an increase in revenue and a decrease in spoilage would have resulted
in a decrease in revenue). Given that Member behavior will continue to develop as the program
matures, the Company expects the current estimates may change in future periods. However, the
Company believes its current estimates are reasonable given current facts and circumstances.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
As a result of the Company’s acquisition of AirTran on May 2, 2011, the Company has reflected
Goodwill on its Consolidated Balance Sheet in the amount of $970 million at December 31, 2016, the
excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of AirTran’s assets and liabilities on the
acquisition date. In addition, the Company’s other intangible assets have a net carrying amount of
approximately $426 million at December 31, 2016, of which $295 million related to indefinite-lived
intangible assets. Indefinite-lived assets are not amortized and primarily consist of take-off and landing
slots at certain domestic slot-controlled airports. Finite-lived intangible assets include leasehold rights
to airport gates and certain intangible assets recognized as a part of the valuation of AirTran and are
amortized over their estimated economic useful lives. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets
are not amortized, but tested for impairment annually, as of October 1st, or more frequently if events or
circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
The Company applies a fair value based impairment test to the carrying value of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets annually on October 1st, or more frequently if certain events or
circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred. The Company assesses the
value of goodwill and indefinite-lived assets under either a qualitative or quantitative approach. Under
a qualitative approach, the Company considers various market factors, including applicable key
assumptions listed below. These factors are analyzed to determine if events and circumstances have
affected the fair value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. If the Company determines
that it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, the quantitative
approach is used to assess the asset’s fair value and the amount of the impairment. Under a quantitative
approach, the fair value is calculated based on key assumptions listed below. If the asset’s carrying
70
value exceeds its fair value calculated using the quantitative approach, an impairment charge is
recorded for the difference in fair value and carrying value.
When performing a quantitative impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets, fair value is estimated based on (i) recent market transactions, where available; (ii) projected
discounted cash flows (an income approach); or (iii) a combination of limited market transactions and
the lease savings method (which reflects potential annual after-tax lease savings arising from owning
the slots rather than leasing them from another airline at market rates).
Key assumptions and/or estimates made in the Company’s impairment tests include: (i) a projection of
revenues, expenses, and cash flows; (ii) terminal period revenue growth and cash flows; (iii) an
estimated weighted average cost of capital; (iv) an assumed discount rate depending on the asset; (v) a
tax rate; and (vi) market prices for comparable assets. The Company believes these assumptions are
consistent with those a hypothetical market participant would use given circumstances that were
present at the time the estimates were made. However, actual results and amounts may be significantly
different from the Company’s estimates.
As part of this evaluation, the Company assesses whether changes in (i) macroeconomic conditions;
(ii) industry and market conditions; (iii) cost factors; (iv) overall financial performance; and
(v) Company-specific events, have occurred which would impact the use and/or fair value of these
assets since the Company’s quantitative analysis in 2013. In 2015 and 2016, the Company performed a
qualitative assessment of goodwill and determined that there was no indication that goodwill was
impaired. The qualitative assessments included analyses and weighting of all relevant factors noted
above. The Company performed a quantitative assessment of all indefinite-lived intangible assets in
2015 and a qualitative assessment in 2016 and determined that there was no impairment in either year.
The Company did record a $21 million noncash impairment charge related to leased slots at Newark
Liberty International Airport (not indefinite-lived assets) as a result of the FAA announcement in April
2016 that this airport was being changed to a Level 2 schedule-facilitated airport from its precious
designation as Level 3. Southwest does not believe this FAA decision is indicative of a similar decision
being made at its other slot-controlled airports.
Future impairment of Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets may result from changes in
assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. Factors
which could result in an impairment of Goodwill, holding other assumptions constant, could include,
but are not limited to: (i) a significant reduction in passenger demand as a result of domestic or global
economic conditions; (ii) significantly higher prices for jet fuel; (iii) lower fares or passenger yields as
a result of increased competition or lower demand; (iv) a significant increase in future capital
expenditure commitments; and (v) significant disruptions to the Company’s operations as a result of
both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by
Employees, or further industry regulation. Factors which could result in an impairment of owned
domestic slots, holding other assumptions constant, could include, but are not limited to: (i) a change in
competition in the slotted airport; (ii) a change in governmental regulations in the slotted airport;
(iii) significantly higher prices for jet fuel; and (iv) increased competition at a nearby airport.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
The Company has interest rate risk in its floating-rate debt obligations and interest rate swaps,
commodity price risk in jet fuel required to operate its aircraft fleet, and market risk in the derivatives
used to manage its fuel hedging program and in the form of fixed-rate debt instruments. As of
71
December 31, 2016, Southwest operated a total of 134 aircraft under operating and capital lease.
However, except for a small number of aircraft that have lease payments that fluctuate based in part on
changes in market interest rates, the remainder of the leases are not considered market sensitive
financial instruments and, therefore, are not included in the interest rate sensitivity analysis below. The
Company also has 78 aircraft under operating and capital lease that have been subleased to another
carrier. Further information about this sublease arrangement is disclosed in Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. The Company does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for
trading purposes. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the
Company’s accounting for its hedging program and for further details on the Company’s financial
derivative instruments.
Hedging
The Company purchases jet fuel at prevailing market prices, but seeks to manage market risk through
execution of a documented hedging strategy. The Company utilizes financial derivative instruments, on
both a short-term and a long-term basis, as a form of insurance against the potential for significant
increases in fuel prices. The Company believes there can be significant risk in not hedging against the
possibility of such fuel price increases, especially in energy markets in which prices are high and/or
rising. The Company expects to consume approximately 2 billion gallons of jet fuel in 2017. Based on
this anticipated usage, a change in jet fuel prices of just one cent per gallon would impact the
Company’s Fuel and oil expense by approximately $20 million for 2017, excluding any impact
associated with fuel derivative instruments held.
As of December 31, 2016, the Company held a net position of fuel derivative instruments that
represented a hedge for a portion of its anticipated jet fuel purchases for each year from 2017 through
2019. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Company
may increase or decrease the size of its fuel hedge based on its expectation of future market prices, as
well as its perceived exposure to cash collateral requirements contained in the agreements it has signed
with various counterparties, while considering the significant cost that can be associated with different
types of hedging strategies. The gross fair value of outstanding financial derivative instruments related
to the Company’s jet fuel market price risk at December 31, 2016, was a net liability of $326 million.
In addition, $301 million in cash collateral deposits were provided by the Company in connection with
these instruments based on their fair value as of December 31, 2016. The fair values of the derivative
instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by use of present value methods or
standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in
underlying markets. An immediate 10 percent increase or decrease in underlying fuel-related
commodity prices from the December 31, 2016 (for all years from 2017 through 2019) prices would
correspondingly change the fair value of the commodity derivative instruments in place by
approximately $266 million. Fluctuations in the related commodity derivative instrument cash flows
may change by more or less than this amount based upon further fluctuations in futures prices, as well
as related income tax effects. In addition, this does not consider changes in cash, aircraft, or letters of
credit utilized as collateral provided to or by counterparties, which would fluctuate in an amount equal
to or less than this amount, depending on the type of collateral arrangement in place with each
counterparty. This sensitivity analysis uses industry standard valuation models and holds all inputs
constant at December 31, 2016, levels, except underlying futures prices.
The Company’s credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of
contracts that are an asset to the Company. At such times, these outstanding instruments expose the
72
Company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. As of
December 31, 2016, the Company had five counterparties in which the derivatives held were a net
asset. To manage credit risk, the Company selects and periodically reviews counterparties based on
credit ratings, limits its exposure with respect to each counterparty, and monitors the market position of
the fuel hedging program and its relative market position with each counterparty. However, if one or
more of these counterparties were in a liability position to the Company and were unable to meet their
obligations, any open derivative contracts with the counterparty could be subject to early termination,
which could result in substantial losses for the Company. At December 31, 2016, the Company had
agreements with all of its active counterparties containing early termination rights and/or bilateral
collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold
amount based on the counterparty’s credit rating. The Company also had agreements with
counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or pledged aircraft are required to be posted
as collateral whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with those counterparties exceeds
specific thresholds. Refer to the counterparty credit risk and collateral table provided in Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for the fair values of fuel derivatives, amounts posted as collateral,
and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of December 31, 2016, at which such postings
are triggered.
Due to the terms of the Company’s current fuel hedging agreements with counterparties and the types
of derivatives held, in the Company’s judgment, it does not have significant additional cash collateral
exposure. Given its investment grade credit rating, the Company can meet any additional significant
collateral calls by posting aircraft and/or letters of credit. As an example, if market prices for the
commodities used in the Company’s fuel hedging activities were to decrease by 25 percent from
market prices as of December 31, 2016, given the Company’s current fuel derivative portfolio, its
aircraft collateral facilities, and its investment grade credit rating, it would likely provide an additional
$256 million in collateral. The Company would have the option of providing cash, letters of credit,
and/or pledging aircraft in order to meet this collateral requirement. At December 31, 2016, the
Company had $1.6 billion in aircraft available to be posted as collateral. In addition, the Company
would expect to also benefit from lower market prices paid for fuel used in its operations. See
Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is also subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses to hedge against fuel price
volatility do not provide adequate protection. In recent years, jet fuel prices have been closely
correlated with changes in the price of Brent crude oil. The Company has attempted to mitigate some
of this risk by entering into more fuel hedges based on Brent crude oil. In addition, to add further
protection, the Company may periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes. Jet
fuel is not widely traded on an organized futures exchange and, therefore, there are limited
opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into
the future.
The Company also has agreements with each of its counterparties associated with its outstanding
interest rate swap agreements in which cash collateral may be required based on the fair value of
outstanding derivative instruments, as well as the Company’s and its counterparty’s credit ratings. As
of December 31, 2016, no cash collateral deposits were provided by or held by the Company based on
its outstanding interest rate swap agreements.
Due to the significance of the Company’s fuel hedging program and the emphasis that the Company
places on utilizing fuel derivatives to reduce its fuel price risk, the Company has created a system of
73
governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of internal controls designed so
that procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. For
example, the Company has put in place controls designed to: (i) create and maintain a comprehensive
risk management policy; (ii) provide for proper authorization by the appropriate levels of management;
(iii) provide for proper segregation of duties; (iv) maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding
the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and (v) have key performance
indicators in place in order to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities. The
Company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and
sophistication of its hedging program.
Financial Market Risk
The vast majority of the Company’s tangible assets are aircraft, which are long-lived. The Company’s
strategy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and grow capacity steadily and profitably under the
right conditions. While the Company uses financial leverage, it strives to maintain a strong balance
sheet and has a “BBB+” rating with Fitch, a “BBB” rating with Standard & Poor’s, and a “Baa1” credit
rating with Moody’s as of December 31, 2016, all of which are considered “investment grade.” The
Company’s French Credit Agreements due 2018 do not give rise to significant fair value risk but do
give rise to interest rate risk because this borrowing was originally issued as floating-rate debt. In
addition, as disclosed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has converted
certain of its long-term debt to floating rate debt by entering into an interest rate swap agreement.
Although there is interest rate risk associated with these floating rate borrowings, the risk of the French
Credit Agreements due 2018 is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the Company may prepay this debt
under certain conditions. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on
the material terms of the Company’s short-term and long-term debt.
As of December 31, 2016, excluding the notes or debentures that have been converted to a floating
rate, the Company’s fixed-rate senior unsecured notes outstanding included its $300 million 5.125%
senior unsecured notes due 2017, its $300 million 3.00% senior unsecured notes due 2026, and its $100
million 7.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027. Excluding the notes due 2026, these notes had at one
point been converted to floating rates, but the Company subsequently terminated the fixed-to-floating
interest rate swap agreements related to them. The effect of these terminations was that the interest
associated with these debts prospectively reverted back to their original fixed rates. As a result of the
gains realized on these transactions, which are being amortized over the remaining term of the
corresponding notes, and based on projected interest rates at the date of termination, the Company does
not believe its future interest expense, based on projected future interest rates at the date of termination,
associated with these notes will significantly differ from the expense it would have recorded had the
notes remained at floating rates. The following table displays the characteristics of the Company’s
secured fixed rate debt as of December 31, 2016:
Principal
amount
(in millions)
Effective
fixed rate
Final
maturity Underlying collateral
Term Loan Agreement $ 106 6.315% 5/6/2019 14 specified Boeing 737-700 aircraft
Term Loan Agreement 28 4.84% 7/1/2019 4 specified Boeing 737-700 aircraft
Term Loan Agreement 284 5.223% 5/9/2020 21 specified Boeing 737-700 aircraft
The carrying value of the Company’s floating rate debt totaled $1.1 billion, and this debt had a
weighted-average maturity of 4.69 years at floating rates averaging 1.97 percent for the year ended
74
December 31, 2016. In total, the Company’s fixed-rate debt and floating rate debt represented
12.44 percent and 5.59 percent, respectively, of consolidated noncurrent assets at December 31, 2016.
The Company also has some risk associated with changing interest rates due to the short-term nature of
its invested cash, which totaled $1.7 billion, and short-term investments, which totaled $1.6 billion at
December 31, 2016. See Notes 1 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information. The Company currently invests available cash in certificates of deposit, highly rated
money market instruments, investment grade commercial paper, treasury securities, U.S. government
agency securities, and other highly rated financial instruments, depending on market conditions and
operating cash requirements. Because of the short-term nature of these investments, the returns earned
parallel closely with short-term floating interest rates. The Company has not undertaken any additional
actions to cover interest rate market risk and is not a party to any other material market interest rate
risk management activities.
A hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates as of December 31, 2016, would not have a
material effect on the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate debt instruments. See Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the fair value of financial instruments. A
change in market interest rates could, however, have a corresponding effect on earnings and cash flows
associated with the Company’s floating-rate debt, invested cash (excluding cash collateral deposits
held, if applicable), floating-rate aircraft leases, and short-term investments because of the floating-rate
nature of these items. Assuming floating market rates in effect as of December 31, 2016 were held
constant throughout a 12-month period, a hypothetical 10 percent change in those rates would have an
immaterial impact on the Company’s net earnings and cash flows. Utilizing these assumptions and
considering the Company’s cash balance (excluding the impact of cash collateral deposits held or
provided to counterparties, if applicable), short-term investments, and floating-rate debt outstanding at
December 31, 2016, an increase in rates would have a net negative effect on the Company’s earnings
and cash flows, while a decrease in rates would have a net positive effect on the Company’s earnings
and cash flows. However, a 10 percent change in market rates would not impact the Company’s
earnings or cash flow associated with the Company’s publicly traded fixed-rate debt.
The Company is also subject to a financial covenant included in its revolving credit facility, and is
subject to credit rating triggers related to its credit card transaction processing agreements, the pricing
related to any funds drawn under its revolving credit facility, and some of its hedging counterparty
agreements. Certain covenants include the maintenance of minimum credit ratings and/or triggers that are
based on changes in these ratings. The Company’s revolving credit facility contains a financial covenant
requiring a minimum coverage ratio of adjusted pre-tax income to fixed obligations, as defined. As of
December 31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with this covenant and there were no amounts
outstanding under the revolving credit facility. However, if conditions change and the Company fails to
meet the minimum standards set forth in the revolving credit facility, there could be a reduction in the
availability of cash under the facility, or an increase in the costs to keep the facility intact as written. The
Company’s hedging counterparty agreements contain ratings triggers in which additional cash collateral
could be required to be posted with the counterparty if the Company’s credit rating were to fall below
investment grade by two of the three major rating agencies, and if the Company were in a net liability
position with the counterparty. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information. As of December 31, 2016, $301 million in cash collateral deposits were provided by the
Company under these provisions. If the Company’s credit rating had been below investment grade as of
that date, the Company would not have been required to post additional cash collateral deposits with fuel
hedge counterparties because it had room available under its existing aircraft collateral facilities.
75
The Company currently has agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising
from purchases of air travel tickets by its Customers utilizing American Express, Discover, and
MasterCard/VISA. Credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for
travel because the processor generally forwards the cash related to the purchase to the Company soon
after the purchase is completed, but the air travel generally occurs after that time; therefore, the
processor will have liability if the Company does not ultimately provide the air travel. Under these
processing agreements, and based on specified conditions, increasing amounts of cash reserves could
be required to be posted with the counterparty.
A majority of the Company’s sales transactions are processed by Chase Paymentech. Should
chargebacks processed by Chase Paymentech reach a certain level, proceeds from advance ticket sales
could be held back and used to establish a reserve account to cover such chargebacks and any other
disputed charges that might occur. Additionally, cash reserves are required to be established if the
Company’s credit rating falls to specified levels below investment grade. Cash reserve requirements
are based on the Company’s public debt rating and a corresponding percentage of the Company’s Air
traffic liability.
As of December 31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with all credit card processing agreements.
However, the inability to enter into credit card processing agreements would have a material adverse
effect on the business of the Company. The Company believes that it will be able to continue to renew
its existing credit card processing agreements or will be able to enter into new credit card processing
agreements with other processors in the future.
76
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Southwest Airlines Co.
Consolidated Balance Sheet
(in millions, except share data)
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
ASSETS
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,680 $ 1,583
Short-term investments 1,625 1,468
Accounts and other receivables 546 474
Inventories of parts and supplies, at cost 337 311
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 310 188
Total current assets 4,498 4,024
Property and equipment, at cost:
Flight equipment 20,275 19,462
Ground property and equipment 3,779 3,219
Deposits on flight equipment purchase contracts 1,190 1,089
Assets constructed for others 1,220 915
26,464 24,685
Less allowance for depreciation and amortization 9,420 9,084
17,044 15,601
Goodwill 970 970
Other assets 774 717
$ 23,286 $ 21,312
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable $ 1,178 $ 1,188
Accrued liabilities 1,985 2,591
Air traffic liability 3,115 2,990
Current maturities of long-term debt 566 637
Total current liabilities 6,844 7,406
Long-term debt less current maturities 2,821 2,541
Deferred income taxes 3,374 2,490
Construction obligation 1,078 757
Other noncurrent liabilities 728 760
Stockholders’ equity:
Common stock, $1.00 par value: 2,000,000,000 shares authorized;
807,611,634 shares issued in 2016 and 2015 808 808
Capital in excess of par value 1,410 1,374
Retained earnings 11,418 9,409
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (323) (1,051)
Treasury stock, at cost: 192,450,855 and 160,010,017 shares
in 2016 and 2015 respectively (4,872) (3,182)
Total stockholders’ equity 8,441 7,358
$ 23,286 $ 21,312
See accompanying notes.
77
Southwest Airlines Co.
Consolidated Statement of Income
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Year ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014
OPERATING REVENUES:
Passenger $ 18,594 $ 18,299 $ 17,658
Freight 171 179 175
Special revenue adjustment — 172 —
Other 1,660 1,170 772
Total operating revenues 20,425 19,820 18,605
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Salaries, wages, and benefits 6,798 6,383 5,434
Fuel and oil 3,647 3,616 5,293
Maintenance materials and repairs 1,045 1,005 978
Aircraft rentals 229 238 295
Landing fees and other rentals 1,211 1,166 1,111
Depreciation and amortization 1,221 1,015 938
Acquisition and integration — 39 126
Other operating expenses 2,514 2,242 2,205
Total operating expenses 16,665 15,704 16,380
OPERATING INCOME 3,760 4,116 2,225
OTHER EXPENSES (INCOME):
Interest expense 122 121 130
Capitalized interest (47) (31) (23)
Interest income (24) (9) (7)
Other (gains) losses, net 162 556 309
Total other expenses (income) 213 637 409
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 3,547 3,479 1,816
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 1,303 1,298 680
NET INCOME $ 2,244 $ 2,181 $ 1,136
NET INCOME PER SHARE, BASIC $ 3.58 $ 3.30 $ 1.65
NET INCOME PER SHARE, DILUTED $ 3.55 $ 3.27 $ 1.64
Cash dividends declared per common share $ .3750 $ .2850 $ .2200
See accompanying notes.
78
Southwest Airlines Co.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
(in millions)
Year ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014
NET INCOME $ 2,244 $ 2,181 $ 1,136
Unrealized gain (loss) on fuel derivative instruments,
net of deferred taxes of $432, ($181), and ($430) 735 (308) (727)
Unrealized gain on interest rate derivative instruments,
net of deferred taxes of $5, $6, and $5 798
Unrealized loss on defined benefit plan items, net of
deferred taxes of ($13), ($7), and ($8) (23) (12) (16)
Other, net of deferred taxes of $5, $-, and $- 9 (2) —
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) $ 728 $ (313) $ (735)
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME $ 2,972 $ 1,868 $ 401
See accompanying notes.
79
Southwest Airlines Co.
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity
(in millions, except per share amounts)
Year ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014
Common
Stock
Capital in
excess of
par value
Retained
earnings
Accumulated
other
comprehensive
income (loss)
Treasury
stock Total
Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 808 $ 1,231 $ 6,431 $ (3) $ (1,131) $ 7,336
Repurchase of common stock — — — — (955) (955)
Issuance of common and treasury stock
pursuant to Employee stock plans — 40 — — 60 100
Net tax benefit (expense) of options
exercised — 23 — — — 23
Share-based compensation — 21 — — — 21
Cash dividends, $.2200 per share — — (151) — — (151)
Comprehensive income — — 1,136 (735) — 401
Balance at December 31, 2014 $ 808 $ 1,315 $ 7,416 $ (738) $ (2,026) $ 6,775
Repurchase of common stock — — — — (1,180) (1,180)
Issuance of common and treasury stock
pursuant to Employee stock plans — 6 — — 24 30
Net tax benefit (expense) of options
exercised — 24 — — — 24
Share-based compensation — 29 — — — 29
Cash dividends, $.2850 per share — — (188) — — (188)
Comprehensive income — — 2,181 (313) — 1,868
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ 808 $ 1,374 $ 9,409 $ (1,051) $ (3,182) $ 7,358
Repurchase of common stock — — — — (1,750) (1,750)
Issuance of common and treasury stock
pursuant to Employee stock plans — 8 — — 12 20
Conversion of 5.25% senior notes to
common stock — (5) — — 48 43
Share-based compensation — 33 — — — 33
Cash dividends, $.3750 per share — — (235) — — (235)
Comprehensive income — — 2,244 728 — 2,972
Balance at December 31, 2016 $ 808 $ 1,410 $ 11,418 $ (323) $ (4,872) $ 8,441
See accompanying notes.
80
Southwest Airlines Co.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(in millions)
Year ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Net income $ 2,244 $ 2,181 $ 1,136
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization 1,221 1,015 938
Loss on asset impairment 21 — —
Unrealized/realized (gain) loss on fuel derivative instruments (200) 113 279
Deferred income taxes 455 (109) 501
Changes in certain assets and liabilities:
Accounts and other receivables (50) (88) 54
Other assets (119) 103 142
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 226 961 36
Air traffic liability 125 94 326
Cash collateral received from (provided to) derivative counterparties 535 (570) (233)
Other, net (165) (462) (277)
Net cash provided by operating activities 4,293 3,238 2,902
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Capital expenditures (2,038) (2,041) (1,748)
Assets constructed for others (109) (102) (80)
Purchases of short-term investments (2,388) (1,986) (3,080)
Proceeds from sales of short-term and other investments 2,263 2,223 3,185
Other, net — (7) (4)
Net cash used in investing activities (2,272) (1,913) (1,727)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 515 500 300
Proceeds from Employee stock plans 29 46 110
Reimbursement for assets constructed for others 107 24 27
Proceeds from termination of interest rate derivative instrument — 12 —
Payments of long-term debt and capital lease obligations (523) (213) (561)
Payments of convertible debt (68) — —
Payments of cash dividends (222) (180) (139)
Repayment of construction obligation (9) (10) (11)
Repurchase of common stock (1,750) (1,180) (955)
Other, net (3) (23) (19)
Net cash used in financing activities (1,924) (1,024) (1,248)
NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 97 301 (73)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD 1,583 1,282 1,355
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD $ 1,680 $ 1,583 $ 1,282
CASH PAYMENTS FOR:
Interest, net of amount capitalized $ 100 $ 105 $ 128
Income taxes $ 902 $ 1,440 $ 155
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NONCASH TRANSACTIONS:
Flight equipment acquired through the assumption of debt $ 20 $ — $ —
Flight equipment under capital leases $ 307 $ 193 $ 153
Assets constructed for others $ 196 $ 192 $ 88
See accompanying notes.
81
Southwest Airlines Co.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company”) operates Southwest Airlines, a major domestic airline. The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned
subsidiaries, which include AirTran Holdings, LLC. The Company owns all of the outstanding equity
of AirTran Holdings, Inc. (“AirTran Holdings”), the former parent company of AirTran Airways, Inc.
(“AirTran Airways”). Throughout these Notes, the Company makes reference to AirTran, which is
meant to be inclusive of AirTran Holdings, LLC, the successor to AirTran Holdings, and its
subsidiaries, including among others, AirTran Airways. AirTran’s final passenger service was on
December 28, 2014. All integration costs were incurred in periods prior to 2016. The accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of operations and cash flows for all periods
presented and all significant inter-entity balances and transactions have been eliminated. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from
these estimates.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash in excess of that necessary for operating requirements is invested in short-term, highly liquid,
income-producing investments. Investments with original maturities of three months or less when
purchased are classified as cash and cash equivalents, which primarily consist of certificates of deposit,
money market funds, and investment grade commercial paper issued by major corporations and
financial institutions. Cash and cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.
As of December 31, 2016, $301 million in net cash collateral deposits were provided by the Company
to its fuel hedge counterparties and no cash collateral deposits were held by or provided by the
Company to its interest rate hedge counterparties. As of December 31, 2015, $835 million in cash
collateral deposits were provided by the Company to its fuel hedge counterparties and no cash
collateral deposits were held by or provided by the Company to its interest rate hedge counterparties.
Cash collateral amounts provided or held associated with fuel and interest rate derivative instruments
are not restricted in any way and earn interest income at an agreed upon rate that approximates the
rates earned on short-term securities issued by the U.S. Government. Depending on the fair value of
the Company’s fuel and interest rate derivative instruments, the amounts of collateral deposits held or
provided at any point in time can fluctuate significantly. See Note 10 for further information on these
collateral deposits and fuel derivative instruments.
Short-term and Noncurrent Investments
Short-term investments consist of investments with original maturities of greater than three months but
less than twelve months when purchased. These are primarily short-term securities issued by the U.S.
Government and certificates of deposit issued by domestic banks. All of these investments are
classified as available-for-sale securities and are stated at fair value, which approximates cost. For all
82
short-term investments, at each reset period or upon reinvestment, the Company accounts for the
transaction as Proceeds from sales of short-term investments for the security relinquished, and
Purchases of short-investments for the security purchased, in the accompanying Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, if any, are recognized in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) in the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheet. Realized net gains and losses on specific investments, if any, are reflected in Interest
income in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income. Both unrealized and realized gains
and/or losses associated with investments were immaterial for all years presented.
Noncurrent investments consist of investments with maturities of greater than twelve months.
Noncurrent investments are included as a component of Other assets in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.
Accounts and Other Receivables
Accounts and other receivables are carried at cost. They primarily consist of amounts due from credit
card companies associated with sales of tickets for future travel, and amounts due from business
partners in the Company’s frequent flyer program. The allowance for doubtful accounts was
immaterial at December 31, 2016 and 2015. In addition, the provision for doubtful accounts and writeoffs
for 2016, 2015, and 2014 were each immaterial.
Inventories
Inventories primarily consist of aircraft fuel, flight equipment expendable parts, materials, and
supplies. All of these items are carried at average cost, less an allowance for obsolescence. These items
are generally charged to expense when issued for use. The reserve for obsolescence was $57 million
and $47 million at December 31, 2016, and 2015, respectively. In addition, the Company’s provision
for obsolescence and write-offs for 2016, 2015, and 2014 were each immaterial.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment is stated at cost. Capital expenditures includes payments made for aircraft,
other flight equipment, purchase deposits related to future aircraft deliveries, and ground and other
property and equipment. Depreciation is provided by the straight-line method to estimated residual
values over periods generally ranging from 23 to 25 years for flight equipment, 5 to 30 years for
ground property and equipment, and 25 to 30 years, or the expected term of the Company’s lease if
shorter, for Assets constructed for others, once the asset is placed in service. Residual values estimated
for aircraft generally range from 2 to 20 percent, for ground property and equipment generally range
from 0 to 10 percent, and for Assets constructed for others range from 17 to 25 percent. Property under
capital leases and related obligations are initially recorded at an amount equal to the present value of
future minimum lease payments computed on the basis of the Company’s incremental borrowing rate
or, when known, the interest rate implicit in the lease. Amortization of property under capital leases is
on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is included in Depreciation and amortization expense.
Leasehold improvements generally are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the
estimated useful life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. Assets constructed for
others primarily consists of airport improvement projects, once placed into service, in which the
Company is considered the accounting owner of the facilities. See Note 4 for further information.
83
During first quarter 2016, the Company made the decision to further simplify its operations and
accelerate the retirement of its less-efficient Classic fleet to no later than third quarter 2017, versus the
original scheduled retirement of this fleet that had extended out to 2021. This change in retirement
dates is considered a change in estimate and has been accounted for on a prospective basis as of the
dates the decisions were finalized. Therefore, the Company has recorded and will record accelerated
depreciation expense over the remainder of the useful lives for each Classic aircraft and related parts.
See Note 7 for further information regarding the Company’s aircraft fleet.
The impacts on expense and earnings from this change in assumption for the year ended December 31,
2016 are as follows:
(in millions, except per share amounts) Year ended December 31, 2016
Depreciation and amortization expense $ 123
Net income * $ (66)
Net income per basic share $ (0.11)
Net income per diluted share $ (0.10)
* net of profitsharing benefit
The estimated impact to Depreciation and amortization expense from this change in assumption for
2017 is an approximate increase of $21 million.
The Company evaluates its long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when events and
circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash flows to be generated by that asset are less than the
carrying amounts of the asset and may not be recoverable. Factors that would indicate potential
impairment include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long-lived
asset(s), a significant change in the long-lived asset’s physical condition, and operating or cash flow
losses associated with the use of the long-lived asset. If an asset is deemed to be impaired, an
impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the asset book value in relation to its estimated fair value.
Aircraft and Engine Maintenance
The cost of scheduled inspections and repairs and routine maintenance costs for all aircraft and engines
are charged to Maintenance materials and repairs expense as incurred. The Company also has “powerby-the-hour”
agreements related to certain of its aircraft engines with external service providers. Under
these agreements, which the Company has determined effectively transfer the risk and create an
obligation associated with the maintenance on such engines to the counterparty, expense is recorded
commensurate with each hour flown on an engine. In situations where the payments to the counterparty
do not sufficiently match the level of services received during the period, expense is recorded on a
straight-line basis over the term of the agreement based on the Company’s best estimate of expected
future aircraft utilization. For its engine maintenance contracts that do not transfer risk to the service
provider, the Company records expense on a time and materials basis when an engine repair event
takes place. Modifications that significantly enhance the operating performance or extend the useful
lives of aircraft or engines are capitalized and amortized over the remaining life of the asset.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The Company applies a fair value based impairment test to the carrying value of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets annually on October 1st, or more frequently if certain events or
84
circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred. The Company assesses the
value of goodwill and indefinite-lived assets under either a qualitative or quantitative approach. Under
a qualitative approach, the Company considers various market factors, including applicable key
assumptions listed below. These factors are analyzed to determine if events and circumstances could
reasonably have affected the fair value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. If the
Company determines that it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired,
the quantitative approach is used to assess the asset’s implied fair value and the amount of the
impairment. Under a quantitative approach, the implied fair value of the Company’s identifiable assets
and liabilities is calculated based on key assumptions. If the Company assets’ carrying value exceeds
the fair value calculated using the quantitative approach, an impairment charge is recorded for the
difference in fair value and carrying value.
The following table is a summary of the Company’s intangible assets, which are included as a
component of Other assets in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, as of December 31, 2016
and 2015:
Year ended December 31, 2016 Year ended December 31, 2015
(in millions)
Weightedaverage
useful
life (in years)
Gross carrying
amount
Accumulated
amortization
Gross carrying
amount
Accumulated
Amortization
Customer relationships/
marketing agreements 9 $ 38 $ 32 $ 38 $ 30
Trademarks/trade names 6 36 36 36 34
Owned domestic slots (a) Indefinite 295 — 303 n/a
Leased domestic slots (a) — — — 17 3
Gate leasehold rights (b) 15 180 55 180 43
Total 13 $ 549 $ 123 $ 574 $ 110
(a) The Company recorded a $21 million impairment associated with owned and leased slots at
Newark Liberty International Airport as a result of the FAA announcement, in April 2016, that this
airport was being changed to a Level 2 schedule-facilitated airport from its previous designation as
Level 3.
(b) Intangible assets primarily consist of acquired leasehold rights to certain airport owned gates,
takeoff and landing slots (a “slot” is the right of an air carrier, pursuant to regulations of the FAA, to
operate a takeoff or landing at a specific time at certain airports) at certain domestic slot-controlled
airports, and certain intangible assets acquired.
The aggregate amortization expense for 2016, 2015, and 2014 was $17 million, $19 million, and $13
million, respectively. Estimated aggregate amortization expense for the five succeeding years and
thereafter is as follows: 2017 – $13 million, 2018 – $13 million, 2019 – $13 million, 2020 – $12
million, 2021 – $12 million, and thereafter – $68 million.
Revenue Recognition
Tickets sold are initially deferred as Air traffic liability. Passenger revenue is recognized when
transportation is provided. Air traffic liability primarily represents tickets sold for future travel dates
and funds that are past flight date and remain unused. The majority of the Company’s tickets sold are
85
nonrefundable. Refundable tickets that are sold but not flown on the travel date can be reused for
another flight, up to a year from the date of sale, or refunded. A small percentage of tickets (or partial
tickets) expire unused. The Company estimates the amount of tickets that expire unused and recognizes
such amounts in Passenger revenue using the redemption method based on the scheduled flight date.
Southwest has a No Show policy that applies to certain nonrefundable fares that are not canceled or
changed by a Customer at least ten minutes prior to a flight’s scheduled departure. Based on the
Company’s revenue recognition policy, revenue is recorded at the flight date for a Customer who does
not change his/her itinerary and loses his/her funds. Amounts collected from passengers for ancillary
service fees are generally recognized as Other revenue when the service is provided, which is typically
the flight date.
The Company’s policy is to record revenue for the estimated spoilage of tickets (including partial
tickets) once the flight date has passed, under the redemption method. Initial spoilage estimates are
routinely adjusted and ultimately finalized once the tickets expire, which is typically twelve months
after the original purchase date. Spoilage estimates are based on the Customers’ historical travel
behavior as well as assumptions about the Customers’ future travel behavior. Assumptions used to
generate spoilage estimates can be impacted by several factors including, but not limited to: fare
increases, fare sales, changes to the Company’s ticketing policies, changes to the Company’s refund,
exchange and unused funds policies, and economic factors.
The Company is also required to collect certain taxes and fees from Customers on behalf of
government agencies and remit these back to the applicable governmental entity on a periodic basis.
These taxes and fees include foreign and U.S. federal transportation taxes, federal security charges, and
airport passenger facility charges. These items are collected from Customers at the time they purchase
their tickets, but are not included in Passenger revenue. The Company records a liability upon
collection from the Customer and relieves the liability when payments are remitted to the applicable
governmental agency.
Frequent Flyer Program
The Company records a liability for the estimated incremental cost of providing free travel under its
frequent flyer program for all amounts earned from flight activity that are expected to be redeemed for
future travel. The estimated incremental cost includes direct passenger costs such as fuel, food, and
other operational costs, but does not include any contribution to fixed overhead costs or profit.
Southwest also sells frequent flyer points and related services to companies participating in its frequent
flyer program. Historically, until July 1, 2015, funds received from the sale of points associated with
these agreements were accounted for under the residual method. Under this method, the Company
estimated the portion of the amounts received from the sale of frequent flyer points that related to free
travel and these amounts were deferred and recognized as Passenger revenue when the ultimate free
travel awards were flown. Effective July 1, 2015, the Company entered into an amended co-branded
credit card agreement (“Agreement”) with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”), through which the
Company sells loyalty points and other items to Chase. This material modification triggered an
accounting change under ASU 2009-13, which was recorded on a prospective basis. The impact of the
accounting change is that the Company estimated the selling prices and volumes over the term of the
Agreement in order to determine the allocation of proceeds to each of the deliverables (travel points to
be awarded; use of the Southwest Airlines’ brand and access to Rapid Reward Member lists;
advertising elements; and the Company’s resource team). The Company records passenger revenue
86
related to air transportation and certificates for discounted companion travel when the transportation is
delivered. The other elements are recognized as Other—net revenue when earned.
The Company followed the transition approach of ASU 2009-13, which required that the Company
adjust the existing deferred revenue balance, classified within Air traffic liability, to reflect the value,
on a relative selling price basis, of any undelivered element remaining at the date of contract
modification. The relative selling price of the undelivered element (air transportation) was lower than
the rate at which it had been deferred under the residual method, and the Company recorded a onetime,
non-cash adjustment to decrease frequent flyer deferred revenue and increase revenue through the
recording of a Special revenue adjustment of $172 million in 2015. The estimated impacts on revenue
and earnings associated with the Agreement and this change in accounting principle recognized
subsequent to the effective date of July 1, 2015, are as follows:
(in millions, except per share amounts) Year ended December 31, 2016 Year ended December 31, 2015
Passenger revenue $ (250)$ (89)
Special revenue adjustment — 172
Other revenue 794 344
Operating revenues $ 544 $ 427
Net income $ 293 $ 227
Net income per basic share $ 0.47 $ 0.34
Net income per diluted share $ 0.46 $ 0.34
For all points sold to business partners that are expected to expire unused, the Company recognizes
spoilage in accordance with the redemption method. The Company’s consolidated liability associated
with the sale of frequent flyer points, was approximately $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion as of
December 31, 2016, and 2015, respectively, which is classified within Air traffic liability. During
fourth quarter 2014, the Company obtained sufficient historical behavioral data to develop a predictive
statistical model to analyze the amount of spoilage expected for points sold to business partners, which
indicated an increase in the expected spoilage rate. This change in estimate was recorded on a
prospective basis, as of October 1, 2014. The impacts on revenue and earnings were as follows:
(in millions, except per share amounts) Year ended December 31, 2015 Year ended December 31, 2014
Passenger revenue $ 115 $ 55
Net income $ 61 $ 29
Net income per basic share $ 0.09 $ 0.04
Net income per diluted share $ 0.09 $ 0.04
The Company continues to evaluate annually in October, but these analyses have not resulted in a
material adjustment.
Advertising
Advertising costs are charged to expense as incurred. Advertising and promotions expense for the
years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 was $232 million, $218 million, and $207 million,
respectively, and is included as a component of Other operating expense in the accompanying
Consolidated Statement of Income.
87
Share-based Employee Compensation
The Company has share-based compensation plans covering certain Employees, including a plan that
also covers the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company accounts for share-based compensation
based on its grant date fair value. See Note 9 for further information.
Financial Derivative Instruments
The Company accounts for financial derivative instruments at fair value and applies hedge accounting
rules where appropriate. The Company utilizes various derivative instruments, including jet fuel, crude
oil, unleaded gasoline, and heating oil-based derivatives, to attempt to reduce the risk of its exposure to
jet fuel price increases. These instruments consist primarily of purchased call options, collar structures,
call spreads, put spreads, and fixed price swap agreements, and upon proper qualification are
accounted for as cash-flow hedges. The Company also has interest rate swap agreements to convert a
portion of its fixed-rate debt to floating rates and has swap agreements that convert certain floating-rate
debt to a fixed-rate. These interest rate hedges are appropriately designated as either fair value hedges
or as cash flow hedges.
Since the majority of the Company’s financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market
exchange, the Company estimates their fair values. Depending on the type of instrument, the values are
determined by the use of present value methods or option value models with assumptions about
commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. Also, since there is not a reliable
forward market for jet fuel, the Company must estimate the future prices of jet fuel in order to measure
the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting changes to those prices. Forward jet fuel
prices are estimated through utilization of a statistical-based regression equation with data from market
forward prices of like commodities. This equation is then adjusted for certain items, such as
transportation costs, that are stated in the Company’s fuel purchasing contracts with its vendors.
For the effective portion of settled fuel hedges, the Company records the associated gains or losses as a
component of Fuel and oil expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income. For amounts representing
ineffectiveness, as defined, or changes in fair value of derivative instruments for which hedge
accounting is not applied, the Company records any gains or losses as a component of Other (gains)
losses, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Amounts that are paid or received in connection
with the purchase or sale of financial derivative instruments (i.e., premium costs of option contracts)
are classified as a component of Other (gains) losses, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income in
the period in which the instrument settles or expires. All cash flows associated with purchasing and
selling derivatives are classified as operating cash flows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,
within Changes in certain assets and liabilities. See Note 10 for further information on hedge
accounting and financial derivative instruments.
The Company classifies its cash collateral provided to or held from counterparties in a “net”
presentation on the Consolidated Balance Sheet against the fair value of the derivative positions with
those counterparties. See Note 10 for further information.
Software Capitalization
The Company capitalizes certain internal and external costs related to the acquisition and development
of internal use software during the application development stages of projects. The Company amortizes
these costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which is
88
typically five to fifteen years. Costs incurred during the preliminary project or the postimplementation/operation
stages of the project are expensed as incurred. Capitalized computer
software, included as a component of Ground property and equipment in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheet, net of accumulated depreciation, was $544 million and $378 million at
December 31, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Computer software depreciation expense was
$111 million, $106 million, and $122 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014,
respectively, and is included as a component of Depreciation and amortization expense in the
accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income. The Company evaluates internal use software for
impairment on a quarterly basis; if it is determined the value of an asset was not recoverable or it
qualifies for impairment, a charge would be recorded to write down the software to the lower of its
carrying value or fair value. The Company had no significant impairments during 2016, 2015, or 2014.
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for deferred income taxes utilizing an asset and liability method, whereby
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the tax effect of temporary differences
between the financial statements and the tax basis of assets and liabilities, as measured by current
enacted tax rates. The Company also evaluates the need for a valuation allowance to reduce deferred
tax assets to estimated recoverable amounts. See “Basis of Presentation” for further information on
current presentation of deferred income taxes.
The Company’s policy for recording interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions is to
record such items as a component of income before income taxes. Penalties are recorded in Other
(gains) losses, net, and interest paid or received is recorded in Interest expense or Interest income,
respectively, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Amounts recorded for penalties and interest
related to uncertain tax positions were immaterial for all years presented. See Note 14 for further
information.
Concentration Risk
Approximately 83 percent of the Company’s full-time equivalent Employees are unionized and are
covered by collective-bargaining agreements. A small percentage of the Company’s unionized
Employees, including its Mechanics, Material Specialists, and Facilities Maintenance Technicians, are
in discussions on labor agreements. These Employee groups represent approximately five percent of
the Company’s full-time equivalent Employees as of December 31, 2016.
The Company attempts to minimize its concentration risk with regards to its cash, cash equivalents,
and its investment portfolio. This is accomplished by diversifying and limiting amounts among
different counterparties, the type of investment, and the amount invested in any individual security or
money market fund.
To manage risk associated with financial derivative instruments held, the Company selects and will
periodically review counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure to a single counterparty,
and monitors the market position of the program and its relative market position with each
counterparty. The Company also has agreements with counterparties containing early termination
rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if market risk exposure
exceeds a specified threshold amount or credit ratings fall below certain levels. Collateral deposits
provided to or held from counterparties serve to decrease, but not totally eliminate, the credit risk
associated with the Company’s hedging program. See Note 10 for further information.
89
As of December 31, 2016, the Company operated an all-Boeing fleet, all of which are variations of the
Boeing 737. If the Company were unable to acquire additional aircraft or associated aircraft parts from
Boeing, or Boeing were unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide
adequate support for its products, the Company’s operations would be materially adversely impacted.
In addition, the Company would be materially adversely impacted in the event of a mechanical or
regulatory issue associated with the Boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part
or all of the Company’s fleet, increased maintenance costs, or because of a negative perception by the
flying public. The Company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other
aircraft parts and would, therefore, also be materially adversely impacted in the event of the
unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts.
The Company has historically entered into agreements with some of its co-brand, payment, and loyalty
partners that contain exclusivity aspects which place certain confidential restrictions on the Company
from entering into certain arrangements with other payment and loyalty partners. These arrangements
generally extend for the terms of the agreements, none of which currently extend beyond May 2022.
The Company believes the financial benefits generated by the exclusivity aspects of these
arrangements outweigh the risks involved with such agreements.
2. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND ACCOUNTING CHANGES
On August 26, 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting
Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows. The standard is intended to reduce
diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. This ASU
is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017,
with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the new guidance, but does not expect it to
have a significant impact on its financial statement presentation or results.
On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Accounting for Credit Losses. The new
standard requires the use of an “expected loss” model on certain types of financial instruments. The
standard also amends the impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities and requires
estimated credit losses to be recorded as allowances instead of reductions to amortized cost of the
securities. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning
after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the new guidance,
but does not expect it to have a significant impact on its financial statement presentation or results.
On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based
Payment Accounting. The standard is part of the FASB effort to simplify various aspects related to
how share-based payments are accounted for and presented in the financial statements. This ASU is
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2016.
Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period, with any adjustments reflected as of the
beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company early adopted this standard during the
three months ended June 30, 2016, with an effective date as of January 1, 2016. The prospective
method of adoption of this standard resulted in the recognition of $7 million of excess tax benefits to
the Company’s income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2016.
On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. The standard is effective for fiscal
years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption
permitted. The Company believes the most significant impact of this ASU on its accounting will be the
90
presentation of operating leases with durations greater than twelve months, with certain exceptions, on
the balance sheet. A portion of the Company’s aircraft fleet is on operating lease, and it has contractual
lease agreements associated with the majority of space from which it operates at the airports it serves.
See Note 7 for more information on the Company’s lease arrangements. The Company has formed a
project team to evaluate and implement the standard and plans to provide additional information about
its expected financial impact at a future date.
On May 28, 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Following the FASB’s finalization of a one year deferral of this standard, the ASU is now effective for
fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15, 2017, with
early adoption permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after
December 15, 2016. The Company has formed a project team to evaluate and implement the standard,
and currently believes the most significant impact of this ASU on its accounting will be the elimination
of the incremental cost method for frequent flyer accounting, which will require the Company to
re-value its liabilities associated with Customer flight points with a relative fair value approach,
resulting in a significant increase in the liabilities. The Company’s liabilities associated with these
flight points was $63 million at December 31, 2016, and the Company currently estimates that
applying a relative fair value would increase the liabilities by approximately twenty times that value.
The adoption of the new standard is also expected to result in different income statement classification
for certain types of revenues, such as ancillary revenues, which are currently classified as Other
revenues. The Company currently anticipates utilizing the full retrospective method of adoption
allowed by the standard, in order to provide for comparative results in all periods presented, and plans
to adopt the standard as of January 1, 2018. The Company is continuing to evaluate the new guidance
both internally and through its participation in an industry working group, and plans to provide
additional information at a future date.
91
3. NET INCOME PER SHARE
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share (in millions
except per share amounts):
Year ended December 31,
2016 2015 2014
NUMERATOR:
Net income $ 2,244 $ 2,181 $ 1,136
Incremental income effect of interest on 5.25% convertible notes (a) 2 4 4
Net income after assumed conversion $ 2,246 $ 2,185 $ 1,140
DENOMINATOR:
Weighted-average shares outstanding, basic 627 661 687
Dilutive effect of Employee stock options and restricted stock units 1 2 3
Dilutive effect of 5.25% convertible notes (a) 5 6 6
Adjusted weighted-average shares outstanding, diluted 633 669 696
NET INCOME PER SHARE:
Basic $ 3.58 $ 3.30 $ 1.65
Diluted $ 3.55 $ 3.27 $ 1.64
(a) See Note 6 for further information related to the convertible notes.
4. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
The Company has contractual obligations and commitments primarily with regard to future purchases
of aircraft, repayment of debt (see Note 6), and lease arrangements (see Note 7). During the year ended
December 31, 2016, the Company purchased 38 new 737-800 aircraft from Boeing and acquired 23
used 737-700 aircraft from third parties under capital leases. In addition, the Company retired from
92
service 42 of its older aircraft (31 737-300 and 11 737-500). As of December 31, 2016, the Company
had firm deliveries and options for Boeing 737-700, 737-800, 737-7, and 737-8 aircraft as follows:
The Boeing Company
-800
Firm
Orders
-800
Options
-7
Firm
Orders
-8
Firm
Orders
-8
Options
Additional
-700s Total
2017 39 — — 14 — 14 67
2018 21 9 — 13 — 4 47
2019 — — 15 — 5 — 20
2020 — — 14 — 8 — 22
2021 — — 1 13 18 — 32
2022 — — — 15 19 — 34
2023 — — — 34 23 — 57
2024 — — — 41 23 — 64
2025 — — — 40 36 — 76
2026 — — — — 36 — 36
2027 — — — — 23 — 23
60 9 (a) 30 170 (b) 191 18 (c) 478
(a) Includes two -800 options exercised in January 2017.
(b) The Company has flexibility to substitute 737-7 in lieu of 737-8 firm orders beginning in 2019.
(c) To be acquired in leases from various third parties.
The Company’s capital commitments associated with the firm orders and additional aircraft in the
above aircraft table are as follows: $1.1 billion in 2017, $893 million in 2018, $614 million in 2019,
$821 million in 2020, $952 million in 2021, and $5.1 billion thereafter.
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport
In December 2013, the Company entered into an agreement with Broward County, Florida, which
owns and operates Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, to oversee and manage the design
and construction of the airport’s Terminal 1 Modernization Project. Pursuant to an addendum entered
into during 2016, the cost of the project is not to exceed $333 million. In addition to significant
improvements to the existing Terminal 1, the project includes the design and construction of a
new five-gate Concourse A with an international processing facility. Funding for the project has come
directly from Broward County aviation sources, but flows through the Company in its capacity as
manager of the project. Major construction on the project began during third quarter 2015 and is
estimated to be substantially completed by mid-2017. The Company has determined that due to its
agreed upon role in overseeing and managing the project, it is considered the owner of the project for
accounting purposes. As such, during construction the Company records expenditures as Assets
constructed for others in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, along with a corresponding outflow within
Assets constructed for others in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and an increase to
Construction obligation (with a corresponding cash inflow from Financing activities in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) as reimbursements are received from Broward County. As
of December 31, 2016, the Company had recorded construction costs related to the project of
$132 million.
93
Houston William P. Hobby Airport
The Company entered into a Memorandum of Agreement (“MOA”) with the City of Houston (“City”),
effective June 2012, to expand the existing Houston Hobby airport facility. As provided in the MOA,
the Company and the City entered into an Airport Use and Lease Agreement (“Lease”) to control the
execution of this expansion and the financial terms thereof. Per the MOA and Lease, this project
provided a new five-gate international terminal with international passenger processing facilities,
expansion of the security checkpoint, and upgrades to the Southwest Airlines ticket counter area.
Construction was effectively completed in October 2015, at which time the Company began operating
from the new facility. The project’s final cost was approximately $150 million, of which $22 million
was considered proprietary and thus not classified as Assets constructed for others. The Company
provided the funding for, as well as management over, the project. In return, the capital cost portion of
the rent the Company pays for the international facility is waived from the initial occupancy until the
expiration of the Lease. However, the City has the option at any time during the term of the Lease to
reimburse the Company’s investment at the then-unamortized cost of the facility. This purchase would
trigger payment of the previously waived capital cost component of rents owed the City. Additionally,
a small portion of the project qualified for rental credits that have been utilized against a portion of the
Company’s 2016 lease payments at the airport.
As a result of its significant involvement in the Houston Hobby project, the Company determined that
it is the owner of the facility for accounting purposes. As such, during construction, the Company
recorded expenditures as Assets constructed for others in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, along with a
corresponding outflow within Assets constructed for others, in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows.
Los Angeles International Airport
In March 2013, the Company executed a lease agreement with Los Angeles World Airports (“LAWA”),
which owns and operates Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”). Under the lease agreement, which
was amended in June 2014, the Company is overseeing and managing the design, development,
financing, construction, and commissioning of the airport’s Terminal 1 Modernization Project (the
“Project”) at a cost not to exceed $526 million. The Project is being funded primarily using the Regional
Airports Improvement Corporation (“RAIC”), which is a quasi-governmental special purpose entity that
acts as a conduit borrower under a syndicated credit facility provided by a group of lenders. Loans made
under the credit facility are being used to fund the development of the Project, and the outstanding loans
will be repaid with the proceeds of LAWA’s payments to purchase completed Project phases. The
Company has guaranteed the obligations of the RAIC under the credit facility. Construction on the
Project began during 2014 and is estimated to be completed during 2018. The Company has determined
that due to its agreed upon role in overseeing and managing the Project, it is considered the owner of the
Project for accounting purposes. LAWA will reimburse the Company (through the RAIC credit facility)
for the non-proprietary renovations, while proprietary renovations will not be reimbursed. As a result, the
$344 million of costs incurred as of December 31, 2016, to fund the Project are included within Assets
constructed for others and all amounts that have been or will be reimbursed will be included within
Construction obligation on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Dallas Love Field
During 2008, the City of Dallas approved the Love Field Modernization Program (“LFMP”), a project
to reconstruct Dallas Love Field with modern, convenient air travel facilities. Pursuant to a Program
94
Development Agreement with the City of Dallas and the Love Field Airport Modernization
Corporation (or “LFAMC,” a Texas non-profit “local government corporation” established by the
City of Dallas to act on the City of Dallas’ behalf to facilitate the development of the LFMP), the
Company managed this project. Major construction was effectively completed by December 31, 2014.
This project consisted of the complete replacement of gate facilities with a new 20-gate facility,
including infrastructure, systems and equipment, aircraft parking apron, fueling system, roadways and
terminal curbside, baggage handling systems, passenger loading bridges and support systems, and
other supporting infrastructure.
Although the City of Dallas received commitments from various sources that are helping to fund
portions of the LFMP project, including the FAA, the Transportation Security Administration, and the
City of Dallas’ Aviation Fund, the majority of the funds used were from the issuance of bonds. The
Company guaranteed principal and interest payments on $456 million of such bonds issued by the
LFAMC. As of December 31, 2016, $432 million of principal remained outstanding.
In conjunction with the Company’s significant presence at Dallas Love Field, the Company agreed to
manage the majority of the LFMP project. Based on the pertinent factors in place at the time the
agreement was made, the Company utilized the accounting guidance provided for lessees involved in
asset construction. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had recorded LFMP construction costs of
$538 million within Assets constructed for others and had recorded a liability of $522 million within
Construction obligation in its Consolidated Balance Sheet. Upon completion of different phases of the
LFMP project, the Company has placed the associated assets in service and has begun depreciating the
assets over their estimated useful lives. In addition, upon the effective completion of construction, the
Company noted the project assets did not meet the qualifications for sale and leaseback accounting due
to the Company’s continuing involvement with the facility, as defined; therefore, for financial
reporting purposes, these assets will remain on the Company’s books until the bonds issued by the
City of Dallas are repaid. The corresponding LFMP liabilities are being reduced primarily through the
Company’s airport rental payments to the City of Dallas as the construction costs of this project are
passed through to the Company via recurring airport rates and charges. A portion of these payments are
reflected as Repayment of construction obligation in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The
imputed interest rate associated with Construction obligation was nominal for 2015 and 2016.
During 2015, the City of Dallas issued additional bonds for the construction of a new parking garage at
Dallas Love Field. The Company has not guaranteed the principal or interest payments on these bonds,
but remains the accounting owner of this project. As of December 31, 2016, the Company recorded
LFMP parking construction expenditures of $80 million with Assets constructed for others with a
corresponding increase to Construction obligation on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Contingencies
The Company is from time to time subject to various legal proceedings and claims arising in the
ordinary course of business, including, but not limited to, examinations by the Internal Revenue
Service (“IRS”). The Company’s management does not expect that the outcome of any of its currently
ongoing legal proceedings or the outcome of any adjustments presented by the IRS, individually or
collectively, will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flow.
95
5. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(in millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Derivative contracts $ 120 $ 9
Intangible assets, net 426 464
Capital lease receivable 90 94
Other 138 150
Other assets $ 774 $ 717
(in millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Accounts payable trade $ 138 $ 178
Salaries payable 200 173
Taxes payable 184 179
Aircraft maintenance payable 26 168
Fuel payable 95 48
Other payable 535 442
Accounts payable $ 1,178 $ 1,188
(in millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Profitsharing and savings plans $ 645 $ 655
Aircraft and other lease related obligations 55 74
Vacation pay 355 309
Union bonuses 188 (a) 329
Health 96 86
Derivative contracts 158 643
Workers compensation 183 187
Property and income taxes 68 62
Other 237 246
Accrued liabilities $ 1,985 $ 2,591
(a) The decrease was due to collective-bargaining agreements reached with multiple workgroups
during 2016 resulting in the payout of previously accrued bonuses. The remaining liability includes
estimated bonuses that would be paid to union members upon ratification of collective-bargaining
agreements for the various union contract groups that were in ongoing negotiations at December 31,
2016, coupled with the accrual of bonuses related to the collective-bargaining agreement reached with
the Company’s Flight Attendants that were paid in January 2017. The liability excludes certain
immaterial benefit costs that are included as a component of Accounts payable. The amount accrued
96
related to ongoing negotiations with various union contract groups is subject to change based on
subsequent negotiations, and any changes would be recorded on a prospective basis.
(in millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Postretirement obligation $ 256 $ 201
Non-current lease-related obligations 125 165
Other deferred compensation 204 179
Deferred gains from sale and leaseback of aircraft 30 43
Derivative contracts 35 74
Other 78 98
Other noncurrent liabilities $ 728 $ 760
Other Operating Expenses
Other operating expenses consist of distribution costs, advertising expenses, personnel expenses,
professional fees, and other operating costs, none of which individually exceed 10 percent of Operating
expenses.
6. LONG-TERM DEBT
(in millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
5.25% Convertible Senior Notes due November 2016 $ — $ 111
5.75% Notes due December 2016 — 307
5.125% Notes due 2017 301 309
French Credit Agreements due 2018—2.23% 14 25
Fixed-rate 737 Aircraft Notes payable through 2018—7.03% 8 17
2.75% Notes due 2019 301 303
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2019—6.315% 106 143
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2019—4.84% 28 36
2.65% Notes due 2020 492 494
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2020—5.223% 284 329
737 Aircraft Notes payable through 2020 206 257
Term Loan Agreements payable through 2021—7.94% 20 —
Pass Through Certificates due 2022—6.24% 324 340
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2026—2.36% 215 —
3.00% Notes due 2026 300 —
7.375% Debentures due 2027 130 132
Capital leases 681 395
$ 3,410 $ 3,198
Less current maturities 566 637
Less debt discount and issuance costs 23 20
$ 2,821 $ 2,541
97
AirTran Long-Term Debt
AirTran Holdings is party to aircraft purchase financing facilities, and as of December 31, 2016,
18 Boeing 737 aircraft remained that were financed under floating-rate facilities. Each note is secured
by a first mortgage on the aircraft to which it relates. The notes bear interest at a floating rate per
annum equal to a margin plus the three or six-month LIBOR in effect at the commencement of each
semi-annual or three-month period, as applicable. As of December 31, 2016, the weighted average
interest rate was 2.40 percent. Principal and interest under the notes are payable semi-annually or every
three months as applicable. As of December 31, 2016, the remaining debt outstanding may be prepaid
without penalty under all aircraft loans provided under such facilities. The remaining notes mature in
years 2017 to 2020. As discussed further in Note 10, a portion of the above floating-rate debt has been
effectively converted to a fixed rate via interest rate swap agreements which expire as the underlying
notes mature.
As of December 31, 2016, two Boeing 737 aircraft were financed under a fixed-rate facility. Each note
is secured by a first mortgage on the aircraft to which it relates. As of December 31, 2016, the
weighted average interest rate was 7.03 percent. Payments of principal and interest under the notes are
due semi-annually. The remaining notes mature in years 2017 to 2018.
In October 2009, AirTran Holdings completed a public offering of $115 million of convertible senior
notes due November 1, 2016. Such notes bore interest at 5.25 percent payable semi-annually, in
arrears, on May 1 and November 1. As a result of the acquisition and subsequent dividends declared by
the Company, the convertible senior notes were convertible into AirTran conversion units of
168.6576 per $1,000 in principal amount of such notes. Based on the terms of the merger agreement,
the holders of these notes could receive shares of the Company’s common stock at a conversion rate of
54.5143 shares and $615.16 in cash per $1,000 in principal amount of such notes. During 2016, all the
bonds matured, the majority of which had been converted prior to the maturity date, with
approximately 6 million shares issued and cash paid of approximately $68 million.
Other Company Long-Term Debt
During November 2016, the Company issued $300 million senior unsecured notes due 2026. The notes
bear interest at 3.00 percent. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15,
beginning in 2017.
During October 2016, the Company entered into a term loan agreement providing for loans to the
Company aggregating up to $215 million, to be secured by mortgages on seven of the Company’s
737-800 aircraft. The Company has borrowed the full $215 million and secured this loan with the
requisite seven aircraft mortgages. The loan matures on October 31, 2026, and is repayable via
semi-annual installments of principal that begin April 30, 2018. The loan bears interest at the LIBO
Rate (as defined in the term loan agreement) plus 1.10 percent, which equates to an initial rate of 2.36
percent, and interest is payable semi-annually in installments that begin April 30, 2017.
During third quarter 2016, the Company entered into term loan agreements to purchase the equity
interest in four aircraft that were previously classified as operating leases, for a total of $20 million. As
of December 31, 2016, the weighted average interest rate for the four term loan agreements was
7.94 percent. Payments of principal and interest under the loans are due semi-annually. The loans
mature in years 2018 to 2021.
98
During November 2015, the Company issued $500 million senior unsecured notes due 2020. The notes
bear interest at 2.65 percent, payable semi-annually in arrears on May 5 and November 5.
Concurrently, the Company entered into a fixed-to-floating interest rate swap to convert the interest on
these unsecured notes to a floating rate until their maturity. See Note 10 for further information on the
interest-rate swap agreement.
During November 2014, the Company issued $300 million senior unsecured notes due 2019. The notes
bear interest at 2.75 percent, payable semi-annually in arrears on May 6 and November 6.
Concurrently, the Company entered into a fixed-to-floating interest rate swap to convert the interest on
these unsecured notes to a floating rate until their maturity. See Note 10 for further information on the
interest-rate swap agreement.
On July 1, 2009, the Company entered into a term loan agreement providing for loans to the Company
aggregating up to $124 million, to be secured by mortgages on five of the Company’s 737-700 aircraft.
The Company has borrowed the full $124 million and secured this loan with the requisite five aircraft
mortgages. The loan matures on July 1, 2019, and is repayable semi-annually in installments of principal
that began January 1, 2010. The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.84 percent, and interest is payable
semi-annually, which payments began on January 1, 2010. In September 2015, the Company prepaid $24
million on the loan agreement, which in turn released one of the encumbered aircraft. As such, the
remaining four aircraft related to this transaction are still encumbered as of December 31, 2016.
On April 29, 2009, the Company entered into a term loan agreement providing for loans to the Company
aggregating up to $332 million, to be secured by mortgages on 14 of the Company’s 737-700 aircraft.
The Company borrowed the full $332 million and secured the loan with the requisite 14 aircraft
mortgages. The loan matures on May 6, 2019, and is being repaid via quarterly installments of principal
that began August 6, 2009. The loan bears interest at the LIBO Rate (as defined in the term loan
agreement) plus 3.30 percent, and interest is payable quarterly, which payments began on August 6,
2009. Pursuant to the terms of the term loan agreement, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
agreement to convert the variable rate on the term loan to a fixed 6.315 percent until maturity.
On May 6, 2008, the Company entered into a term loan agreement providing for loans to the Company
aggregating up to $600 million, to be secured by first-lien mortgages on 21 of the Company’s
737-700 aircraft. On May 9, 2008, the Company borrowed the full $600 million and secured these loans
with the requisite 21 aircraft mortgages. The loans mature on May 9, 2020, and are repayable quarterly in
installments of principal, with the first payment made on August 9, 2008. The loans bear interest at the
LIBO Rate (as defined in the term loan agreement) plus 0.95 percent, and interest is payable quarterly.
Pursuant to the terms of the term loan agreement, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
agreement to convert the variable rate on the term loan to a fixed 5.223 percent until maturity.
On October 3, 2007, grantor trusts established by the Company issued $500 million Pass Through
Certificates consisting of $412 million 6.15 percent Series A certificates and $88 million 6.65 percent
Series B certificates. A separate trust was established for each class of certificates. The trusts used the
proceeds from the sale of certificates to acquire equipment notes in the same amounts, which were
issued by the Company on a full recourse basis. Payments on the equipment notes held in each trust
will be passed through to the holders of certificates of such trust. The equipment notes were issued for
each of 16 Boeing 737-700 aircraft owned by the Company and are secured by a mortgage on each
aircraft. Interest on the equipment notes held for the certificates is payable semi-annually, with the first
payment made on February 1, 2008. Also beginning February 1, 2008, principal payments on the
equipment notes held for both series of certificates are due semi-annually until the balance of the
99
certificates mature on August 1, 2022. Prior to their issuance, the Company also entered into swap
agreements to hedge the variability in interest rates on the Pass Through Certificates. The swap
agreements were accounted for as cash flow hedges, and resulted in a payment by the Company of
$20 million upon issuance of the Pass Through Certificates. The effective portion of the hedge is being
amortized to interest expense concurrent with the amortization of the debt and is reflected in the above
table as a reduction in the debt balance. The ineffectiveness of the hedge transaction was immaterial.
During December 2006, the Company issued $300 million senior unsecured notes due December 15,
2016. The notes bore interest at 5.75 percent. During fourth quarter 2009, the Company entered into a
fixed-to-floating interest rate swap to convert the interest on these unsecured notes to a floating rate;
however, the interest rate swap was terminated in 2015. The notes matured and were redeemed in full
on December 15, 2016, utilizing available cash on hand.
During February 2005, the Company issued $300 million senior unsecured notes due 2017. The notes
bear interest at 5.125 percent, payable semi-annually in arrears, with the first payment made on
September 1, 2005.
In fourth quarter 2004, the Company entered into four identical 13-year floating-rate financing
arrangements, whereby it borrowed a total of $112 million from French banking partnerships.
Although the interest rates on the borrowings float, the Company estimated at inception that,
considering the full effect of the “net present value benefits” included in the transactions, the effective
economic yield over the 13-year term of the loans will be approximately LIBOR minus 45 basis points.
Principal and interest are payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 for each of the loans,
and the Company may terminate the arrangements in any year on either of those dates, under certain
conditions. The Company pledged four aircraft as collateral for the transactions.
On February 28, 1997, the Company issued $100 million of senior unsecured 7.375 percent debentures
due March 1, 2027. Interest is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1. The debentures
may be redeemed, at the option of the Company, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a
redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued interest at
the date of redemption or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of
principal and interest thereon, discounted to the date of redemption at the comparable treasury rate plus
20 basis points, plus accrued interest at the date of redemption. In January 2007, the Company entered
into an interest rate swap agreement to convert this fixed-rate debt to a floating rate; however, the
interest rate swap was terminated in December 2012.
The Company is required to provide standby letters of credit to support certain obligations that arise in
the ordinary course of business. Although the letters of credit are an off-balance sheet item, the
majority of the obligations to which they relate are reflected as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Outstanding letters of credit totaled $179 million at December 31, 2016.
The net book value of the assets pledged as collateral for the Company’s secured borrowings, primarily
aircraft and engines, was $2.8 billion at December 31, 2016. In addition, the Company has pledged a total
of up to 82 of its Boeing 737-700 and 30 of its Boeing 737-800 aircraft at a net book value of
$2.7 billion, in the case that it has obligations related to its fuel derivative instruments with counterparties
that exceed certain thresholds. See Note 10 for further information on these collateral arrangements.
As of December 31, 2016, aggregate annual principal maturities of debt and capital leases (not
including amounts associated with interest rate swap agreements, interest on capital leases,
100
amortization of capital lease incentives, and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments) for the
five-year period ending December 31, 2021, and thereafter, were $555 million in 2017, $323 million in
2018, $573 million in 2019, $797 million in 2020, $148 million in 2021, and $926 million thereafter.
7. LEASES
The Company’s fleet included 51 aircraft on capital lease as of December 31, 2016, compared with
28 aircraft on capital lease, including one B717, as of December 31, 2015. Amounts applicable to these
aircraft that are included in property and equipment were:
(in millions) 2016 2015
Flight equipment $ 923 $ 435
Less: accumulated amortization 82 29
$ 841 $ 406
Total rental expense for operating leases, both aircraft and other, charged to operations in 2016, 2015,
and 2014 was $932 million, $909 million, and $931 million, respectively. The majority of the
Company’s terminal operations space, as well as 83 aircraft, were under operating leases at
December 31, 2016. For aircraft operating leases and for terminal operations leases, expense is
recorded on a straight-line basis and included in Aircraft rentals and in Landing fees and other rentals,
respectively, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Future minimum lease payments under capital
leases and noncancelable operating leases and rentals to be received under subleases with initial or
remaining terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2016, were:
(in millions)
Capital
leases
Operating
leases (b) Subleases
LFMP
facility lease*
Operating
leases, net
2017 $ 80 $ 671 $ (103)$ 24 $ 592
2018 80 562 (102) 25 485
2019 78 491 (97) 25 419
2020 78 377 (78) 26 325
2021 74 232 (41) 26 217
Thereafter 353 715 (26) 608 1,297
Total minimum lease payments $ 743 $ 3,048 $ (447)$ 734 $ 3,335
Less amount representing interest 128
Present value of minimum lease
payments (a) 615
Less current portion 58
Long-term portion $ 557
* See Note 4 for further details
(a) Excludes lease incentive obligation of $66 million.
(b) Includes a portion of the Company’s Construction obligation that has not yet been placed into
service as of December 31, 2016. See Note 4 for further information.
The aircraft leases generally can be renewed for one to five years at rates based on fair market value at
the end of the lease term. Most aircraft leases have purchase options at or near the end of the lease term
at fair market value, generally limited to a stated percentage of the lessor’s defined cost of the aircraft.
101
On July 9, 2012, the Company signed an agreement with Delta Air Lines, Inc. and Boeing Capital
Corp. to lease or sublease all 88 of AirTran’s B717s to Delta at agreed-upon lease rates. The first
converted B717 was delivered to Delta in September 2013, and as of December 31, 2016, the
Company had delivered all B717s to Delta. A total of 76 of the B717s are on operating lease, ten are
owned, and two are on capital lease.
The Company paid the majority of the costs to convert the aircraft to the Delta livery and perform certain
maintenance checks prior to the delivery of each aircraft. The agreement to pay these conversion and
maintenance costs is a “lease incentive” under applicable accounting guidance. The sublease terms for
the 76 B717s on operating lease and the two B717s on capital lease coincide with the Company’s
remaining lease terms for these aircraft from the original lessor, which range from approximately two to
seven years. The leasing of the ten B717s that are owned by the Company is subject to certain conditions,
and the lease terms are for up to six years, after which Delta will have the option to purchase the aircraft
at the then-prevailing market value. The ten owned B717s are accounted for as sales type leases, the two
B717s classified by the Company as capital leases are accounted for as direct financing leases, and the
remaining 76 subleases are accounted for as operating leases with Delta. There are no contingent
payments and no significant residual value conditions associated with the transaction.
The accounting for this transaction was based on the guidance provided for lease transactions. The
Company recorded an initial charge of approximately $137 million during third quarter 2012,
representing the remaining estimated cost, at the scheduled date of delivery of each B717 to Delta
(including the conversion, maintenance, and other contractual costs to be incurred), of the Company’s
lease of the 76 B717s that are accounted for as operating leases, net of the future sublease income from
Delta and the remaining unfavorable aircraft lease liability established as of the acquisition date.
During 2014, the Company recorded an additional $22 million in expense for its revised estimate of
conversion costs for these B717s, and an additional $9 million associated with the extension of time
between when the Company removed the aircraft from revenue service, on December 28, 2014, and
when they entered the conversion process. The charges recorded by the Company for this transaction
were included as a component of Acquisition and integration costs in the Company’s Consolidated
Statement of Income and were included as a component of Other, net in Cash flows from operating
activities in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the corresponding liability for
this transaction, which was not material as of December 31, 2016 or 2015, is included as a component
of Current liabilities and Other noncurrent liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
8. COMMON STOCK
The Company has one class of capital stock, its common stock. Holders of shares of common stock are
entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by the Board of Directors and are entitled to one vote per
share on all matters submitted to a vote of the Shareholders. At December 31, 2016, the Company had
60 million shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to Employee equity plans (of which
31 million shares had not been granted) through various share-based compensation arrangements. See
Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s equity plans.
9. STOCK PLANS
Share-based Compensation
The Company accounts for share-based compensation utilizing fair value, which is determined on the
date of grant for all instruments. The Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
102
December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, reflects share-based compensation expense of $33 million,
$29 million, and $21 million, respectively. The total tax benefit recognized in earnings from sharebased
compensation arrangements for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, was not
material. As of December 31, 2016, there was $36 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to share-based compensation arrangements, which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.7 years. The Company expects substantially all unvested awards to vest.
Restricted Stock Units and Stock Grants
Under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (“2007 Equity Plan”), it
granted restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance-based restricted stock units (“PBRSUs”) to
certain Employees during 2014, 2015, and 2016. Outstanding RSUs vest over three years, subject
generally to the individual’s continued employment or service. The PBRSUs granted in May
2014, January 2015, and January 2016 are subject to the Company’s performance with respect to a threeyear
simple average of Return on Invested Capital, before taxes and excluding special items (“ROIC”),
for the defined performance period and the individual’s continued employment or service. The number of
PBRSUs vesting on the vesting date will be interpolated based on the Company’s ROIC performance and
ranges from zero PBRSUs to 200 percent of granted PBRSUs. Forfeiture rates are estimated at the time
of grant based on historical actuals for similar grants, and are trued-up to actuals over the vesting period.
The Company recognizes all expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with any changes in
expense due to the number of PBRSUs expected to vest being modified on a prospective basis.
Aggregated information regarding the Company’s RSUs and PBRSUs is summarized below:
All Restricted Stock Units
Units (000)
Wtd. Average
Fair Value
(per share)
Outstanding December 31, 2013, Unvested 2,584 $ 11.38
Granted 834 (a) 24.93
Vested (1,239) 11.05
Surrendered (102) 13.18
Outstanding December 31, 2014 2,077 16.92
Granted 561 (b) 45.80
Vested (1,095) 13.33
Surrendered (58) 25.49
Outstanding December 31, 2015 1,485 30.17
Granted 675 (c) 37.29
Vested (665) 23.29
Surrendered (56) 36.29
Outstanding December 31, 2016, Unvested 1,439 $ 36.52
(a) Includes 198 thousand PBRSUs
(b) Includes 183 thousand PBRSUs
(c) Includes 247 thousand PBRSUs
103
In addition, the Company granted approximately 27 thousand shares of unrestricted stock at a weighted
average grant price of $42.90 in 2016, approximately 28 thousand shares at a weighted average grant
price of $41.27 in 2015, and approximately 36 thousand shares at a weighted average grant price of
$24.91 in 2014, to members of its Board of Directors.
A remaining balance of up to 22 million shares of the Company’s common stock may be issued
pursuant to grants under the 2007 Equity Plan.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Under the amended 1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), which has been approved by
Shareholders, the Company is authorized to issue up to a remaining balance of 9 million shares of the
Company’s common stock to Employees of the Company. These shares may be issued at a price equal
to 90 percent of the market value at the end of each monthly purchase period. Common stock
purchases are paid for through periodic payroll deductions. For the years ended December 31, 2016,
2015, and 2014, participants under the plan purchased 622 thousand shares, 597 thousand shares, and
792 thousand shares at average prices of $36.57, $36.40, and $23.17, respectively. The weightedaverage
fair value of each purchase right under the ESPP granted for the years ended December 31,
2016, 2015, and 2014, which is equal to the ten percent discount from the market value of the Common
Stock at the end of each monthly purchase period, was $4.06, $4.04, and $2.68, respectively.
Taxes
A portion of the Company’s granted options qualify as incentive stock options for income tax
purposes. As such, a tax benefit is not recorded at the time the compensation cost related to the options
is recorded for book purposes due to the fact that an incentive stock option does not ordinarily result in
a tax benefit unless there is a disqualifying disposition. Grants of non-qualified stock options and
RSUs result in the creation of a deferred tax asset, which is a temporary difference, until the time that
the option is exercised or the RSU vests. With the issuance of ASU 2016-09, Improvements to
Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies are recorded
through the income statement. Due to the treatment of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock
options, and RSUs for tax purposes, the Company’s effective tax rate from year to year is subject to
variability.
10. FINANCIAL DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
Fuel Contracts
Airline operators are inherently dependent upon energy to operate and, therefore, are impacted by
changes in jet fuel prices. Furthermore, jet fuel and oil typically represent one of the largest operating
expenses for airlines. The Company endeavors to acquire jet fuel at the lowest possible cost and to
reduce volatility in operating expenses through its fuel hedging program. Although the Company may
periodically enter into jet fuel derivatives for short-term timeframes, because jet fuel is not widely
traded on an organized futures exchange, there are limited opportunities to hedge directly in jet fuel for
time horizons longer than approximately 24 months into the future. However, the Company has found
that financial derivative instruments in other commodities, such as West Texas Intermediate (“WTI”)
crude oil, Brent crude oil, and refined products, such as heating oil and unleaded gasoline, can be
useful in decreasing its exposure to jet fuel price volatility. The Company does not purchase or hold
any financial derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
104
The Company has used financial derivative instruments for both short-term and long-term time frames,
and primarily uses a mixture of purchased call options, collar structures (which include both a
purchased call option and a sold put option), call spreads (which include a purchased call option and a
sold call option), put spreads (which include a purchased put option and a sold put option), and fixed
price swap agreements in its portfolio. Although the use of collar structures and swap agreements can
reduce the overall cost of hedging, these instruments carry more risk than purchased call options in that
the Company could end up in a liability position when the collar structure or swap agreement settles.
With the use of purchased call options and call spreads, the Company cannot be in a liability position
at settlement, but does not have coverage once market prices fall below the strike price of the
purchased call option.
For the purpose of evaluating its net cash spend for jet fuel and for forecasting its future estimated jet
fuel expense, the Company evaluates its hedge volumes strictly from an “economic” standpoint and
thus does not consider whether the hedges have qualified or will qualify for hedge accounting. The
Company defines its “economic” hedge as the net volume of fuel derivative contracts held, including
the impact of positions that have been offset through sold positions, regardless of whether those
contracts qualify for hedge accounting. The level at which the Company is economically hedged for a
particular period is also dependent on current market prices for that period, as well as the types of
derivative instruments held and the strike prices of those instruments. For example, the Company may
enter into “out-of-the-money” option contracts (including catastrophic protection), which may not
generate intrinsic gains at settlement if market prices do not rise above the option strike price.
Therefore, even though the Company may have an “economic” hedge in place for a particular period,
that hedge may not produce any hedging gains at settlement and may even produce hedging losses
depending on market prices, the types of instruments held, and the strike prices of those instruments.
For 2016, the Company had fuel derivative instruments in place for up to 46 percent of its fuel
consumption. As of December 31, 2016, the Company also had fuel derivative instruments in place to
provide coverage for up to 63 percent of its 2017 estimated fuel consumption, depending on where
market prices settle. The following table provides information about the Company’s volume of fuel
hedging for the years 2017 through 2019 on an “economic” basis considering current market prices:
Period (by year)
Fuel hedged as of
December 31, 2016
(gallons in millions) (a)
Derivative underlying commodity type as of
December 31, 2016
2017 1,281 WTI crude and Brent crude oil
2018 1,185 Brent crude oil
2019 305 Brent crude oil
(a) Due to the types of derivatives utilized by the Company and different price levels of those contracts, these
volumes represent the maximum economic hedge in place and may vary significantly as market prices fluctuate.
Upon proper qualification, the Company accounts for its fuel derivative instruments as cash flow
hedges. Generally, utilizing hedge accounting, all periodic changes in fair value of the derivatives
designated as hedges that are considered to be effective are recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) until the underlying jet fuel is consumed. See Note 12. The
Company’s results are subject to the possibility that periodic changes will not be effective, as defined,
or that the derivatives will no longer qualify for hedge accounting. Ineffectiveness results when the
change in the fair value of the derivative instrument exceeds the change in the value of the Company’s
105
expected future cash outlay to purchase and consume jet fuel. To the extent that the periodic changes in
the fair value of the derivatives are ineffective, the ineffective portion is recorded to Other (gains)
losses, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Likewise, if a hedge ceases to qualify for hedge
accounting, any change in the fair value of derivative instruments since the last reporting period is
recorded to Other (gains) losses, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income in the period of the
change; however, any amounts previously recorded to AOCI would remain there until such time as the
original forecasted transaction occurs, at which time these amounts would be reclassified to Fuel and
oil expense. When the Company has sold derivative positions in order to effectively “close” or offset a
derivative already held as part of its fuel derivative instrument portfolio, any subsequent changes in fair
value of those positions are marked to market through earnings. Likewise, any changes in fair value of
those positions that were offset by entering into the sold positions and were de-designated as hedges
are concurrently marked to market through earnings. However, any changes in value related to hedges
that were deferred as part of AOCI while designated as a hedge would remain until the originally
forecasted transaction occurs. In a situation where it becomes probable that a fuel hedged forecasted
transaction will not occur, any gains and/or losses that have been recorded to AOCI would be required
to be immediately reclassified into earnings. The Company did not have any such situations occur
during 2014, 2015, or 2016.
Ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in other crude oil related
commodities. Due to the volatility in markets for crude oil and related products, the Company is unable
to predict the amount of ineffectiveness each period, including the loss of hedge accounting, which
could be determined on a derivative by derivative basis or in the aggregate for a specific commodity.
This may result, and has resulted, in increased volatility in the Company’s financial results. Factors
that have and may continue to lead to ineffectiveness and unrealized gains and losses on derivative
contracts include: significant fluctuation in energy prices, the number of derivative positions the
Company holds, significant weather events affecting refinery capacity and the production of refined
products, and the volatility of the different types of products the Company uses in hedging. However,
even though derivatives may not qualify for hedge accounting, the Company continues to hold the
instruments as management believes derivative instruments continue to afford the Company the
opportunity to stabilize jet fuel costs.
Accounting pronouncements pertaining to derivative instruments and hedging are complex with
stringent requirements, including the documentation of a Company hedging strategy, statistical
analysis to qualify a commodity for hedge accounting both on a historical and a prospective basis, and
strict contemporaneous documentation that is required at the time each hedge is designated by the
Company. The Company also examines the effectiveness of each individual hedge and its entire
hedging program on a quarterly basis utilizing statistical analysis. This analysis involves utilizing
regression and other statistical analyses that compare changes in the price of jet fuel to changes in the
prices of the commodities used for hedging purposes.
106
All cash flows associated with purchasing and selling fuel derivatives are classified as Other operating
cash flows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The following table presents the location of
all assets and liabilities associated with the Company’s hedging instruments within the Consolidated
Balance Sheet:
Asset derivatives Liability derivatives
(in millions)
Balance Sheet
location
Fair value
at
12/31/2016
Fair value
at
12/31/2015
Fair value
at
12/31/2016
Fair value
at
12/31/2015
Derivatives designated as hedges*
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross)
Prepaid expenses and
other current assets $ 7 $ 2 $ 44 $ —
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross) Other assets 126 2 — —
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross) Accrued liabilities 4 107 412 526
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross)
Other noncurrent
liabilities — 55 — 658
Interest rate derivative
contracts Other assets — 2 — —
Interest rate derivative
contracts
Other noncurrent
liabilities — — 35 49
Total derivatives designated as hedges $ 137 $ 168 $ 491 $ 1,233
Derivatives not designated as hedges*
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross)
Prepaid expenses and
other current assets $ 54 $ 39 $ — $ 26
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross) Other assets 52 5 52 —
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross) Accrued liabilities 201 1,395 262 1,854
Fuel derivative contracts
(gross)
Other noncurrent
liabilities — 330 — 352
Total derivatives not designated as hedges $ 307 $ 1,769 $ 314 $ 2,232
Total derivatives $ 444 $ 1,937 $ 805 $ 3,465
* Represents the position of each trade before consideration of offsetting positions with each counterparty and
does not include the impact of cash collateral deposits provided to or received from counterparties. See
discussion of credit risk and collateral following in this Note.
107
In addition, the Company also had the following amounts associated with fuel derivative instruments
and hedging activities in its Consolidated Balance Sheet:
(in millions)
Balance Sheet
location
December 31,
2016
December 31,
2015
Cash collateral deposits held from counterparties
for fuel contracts - current
Offset against Prepaid
expenses and other
current assets
$ 4$ —
Cash collateral deposits held from counterparties
for fuel contracts - noncurrent
Offset against Other
assets
6 —
Cash collateral deposits provided to
counterparties for fuel contracts - current
Offset against
Accrued liabilities
311 235
Cash collateral deposits provided to
counterparties for fuel contracts - noncurrent
Offset against Other
noncurrent liabilities
— 600
Due to third parties for fuel contracts Accounts payable 75 46
All of the Company’s fuel derivative instruments and interest rate swaps are subject to agreements that
follow the netting guidance in the applicable accounting for derivatives and hedging. The types of
derivative instruments the Company has determined are subject to netting requirements in the
accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet are those in which the Company pays or receives cash for
transactions with the same counterparty and in the same currency via one net payment or receipt. For
cash collateral held by the Company or provided to counterparties, the Company nets such amounts
against the fair value of the Company’s derivative portfolio by each counterparty. The Company has
elected to utilize netting for both its fuel derivative instruments and interest rate swap agreements and
also classifies such amounts as either current or noncurrent, based on the net fair value position with
each of the Company’s counterparties in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company’s application of its netting policy associated with cash collateral differs depending on
whether its derivative instruments are in a net asset position or a net liability position. If its fuel
derivative instruments are in a net asset position with a counterparty, cash collateral amounts held are
first netted against current outstanding derivative amounts associated with that counterparty until that
balance is zero, and then any remainder is applied against the fair value of noncurrent outstanding
derivative instruments. If the Company’s fuel derivative instruments are in a net liability position with
the counterparty, cash collateral amounts provided are first netted against noncurrent outstanding
derivative amounts associated with that counterparty until that balance is zero, and then any remainder
is applied against the fair value of current outstanding derivative instruments.
108
The Company has the following recognized financial assets and financial liabilities resulting from
those transactions that meet the scope of the disclosure requirements as necessitated by applicable
accounting guidance for balance sheet offsetting:
Offsetting of derivative assets
(in millions)
(i) (ii) (iii) = (i) + (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) = (i) + (ii)
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Description
Balance Sheet
location
Gross amounts
of recognized
assets
Gross amounts
offset in the
Balance Sheet
Net amounts of
assets presented
in the Balance
Sheet
Gross amounts
of recognized
assets
Gross amounts
offset in the
Balance Sheet
Net amounts of
assets presented
in the Balance
Sheet
Fuel
derivative
contracts
Prepaid
expenses and
other current
assets $ 61 $ (48) $ 13 $ 41 $ (26) $ 15
Fuel
derivative
contracts Other assets $ 178 $ (58) $ 120 (a) $ 7 $ — $ 7 (a)
Fuel
derivative
contracts
Accrued
liabilities $ 516 $ (516) $ — (a) $ 1,737 $ (1,737) $ — (a)
Fuel
derivative
contracts
Other
noncurrent
liabilities $ — $ — $ — (a) $ 985 $ (985) $ — (a)
Interest rate
derivative
contracts Other assets $ — $ — $ — (a)$ 2 $ — $ 2(a)
(a) The net amounts of derivative assets and liabilities are reconciled to the individual line item amounts
presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Note 5.
(i) (ii) (iii) = (i) + (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) = (i) + (ii)
December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015
Description
Balance Sheet
location
Gross amounts
of recognized
liabilities
Gross amounts
offset in the
Balance Sheet
Net amounts of
liabilities
presented in the
Balance Sheet
Gross amounts
of recognized
liabilities
Gross amounts
offset in the
Balance Sheet
Net amounts of
liabilities
presented in the
Balance Sheet
Fuel
derivative
contracts
Prepaid
expenses and
other current
assets $ 48 $ (48) $ — $ 26 $ (26) $ —
Fuel
derivative
contracts Other assets $ 58 $ (58) $ — (a) $ — $ — $ — (a)
Fuel
derivative
contracts
Accrued
liabilities $ 674 $ (516) $ 158 (a) $ 2,380 $ (1,737) $ 643 (a)
Fuel
derivative
contracts
Other
noncurrent
liabilities $ — $ — $ — (a) $ 1,010 $ (985) $ 25 (a)
Interest rate
derivative
contracts
Other
noncurrent
liabilities $ 35 $ — $ 35 (a) $ 49 $ — $ 49 (a)
(a) The net amounts of derivative assets and liabilities are reconciled to the individual line item amounts
presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Note 5.
109
The following tables present the impact of derivative instruments and their location within the
Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015:
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships
(Gain) loss recognized in
AOCI on derivatives
(effective portion)
(Gain) loss reclassified from
AOCI into income
(effective portion)(a)
(Gain) loss recognized in
income on derivatives
(ineffective portion)(b)
Year ended
December 31,
Year ended
December 31,
Year ended
December 31,
(in millions) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Fuel derivative contracts $ (122) * $ 546 * $ 613 * $ 238 * $ (11) $ (9)
Interest rate derivatives 2 * 4 * 9 * 13 * (3) (4)
Total $ (120) $ 550 $ 622 $ 251 $ (14) $ (13)
*Net of tax
(a) Amounts related to fuel derivative contracts and interest rate derivatives are included in Fuel and oil and
Interest expense, respectively.
(b) Amounts are included in Other (gains) losses, net.
Derivatives not in cash flow hedging relationships
(Gain) loss
recognized in income on
derivatives
Year ended
December 31, Location of (gain) loss
recognized in income
(in millions) 2016 2015 on derivatives
Fuel derivative contracts $ 14 $ 444 Other (gains) losses, net
Interest rate derivatives (2) — Interest Expense
Total $ 12 $ 444
The Company also recorded expense associated with premiums paid for fuel derivative contracts that
settled/expired during 2016, 2015, and 2014 of $153 million, $124 million, and $62 million,
respectively. These amounts are excluded from the Company’s measurement of effectiveness for
related hedges and are included as a component of Other (gains) losses, net, in the Consolidated
Statement of Income.
The fair values of the derivative instruments, depending on the type of instrument, were determined by
the use of present value methods or option value models with assumptions about commodity prices
based on those observed in underlying markets or provided by third parties. Included in the Company’s
cumulative net unrealized losses from fuel hedges as of December 31, 2016, recorded in AOCI, were
approximately $302 million in unrealized losses, net of taxes, which are expected to be realized in
earnings during the twelve months subsequent to December 31, 2016.
110
Interest Rate Swaps
The Company is party to certain interest rate swap agreements that are accounted for as either fair
value hedges or cash flow hedges, as defined in the applicable accounting guidance for derivative
instruments and hedging. Several of the Company’s interest rate swap agreements qualify for the
“shortcut” method of accounting for hedges, which dictates that the hedges are assumed to be perfectly
effective, and, thus, there is no ineffectiveness to be recorded in earnings. For the Company’s interest
rate swap agreements that do not qualify for the “shortcut” method of accounting, ineffectiveness is
required to be measured at each reporting period. The ineffectiveness associated with all of the
Company’s, including AirTran Holdings’, interest rate swap agreements for all periods presented was
not material.
The fair values of the interest rate swap agreements, which are adjusted regularly, have been
aggregated by counterparty for classification in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Agreements totaling a
net liability of $35 million are fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, and interest rate derivatives not
utilizing hedge accounting, are classified as a component of Other noncurrent liabilities. The
corresponding adjustment related to the net liability associated with the Company’s cash flow hedges
is to AOCI, fair value hedges is to the carrying value of the long-term debt, and interest rate derivatives
not utilizing hedge accounting is to Interest expense. See Note 12.
The Company has fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements in place associated with its
$500 million 2.65 percent Notes due 2020 and its $300 million 2.75 percent Notes due 2019 that are
accounted for as fair value hedges. As a result of the fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements in
place, the average floating rate recognized during 2016 was approximately 2.03 percent on the
$500 million Note, and approximately 1.85 percent on the $300 million Note, based on actual and
forward rates as of December 31, 2016.
The Company has floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements associated with its $600 million
floating-rate term loan agreement due 2020 and its $332 million term loan agreement due 2019 that are
accounted for as cash flow hedges. These interest rate hedges have fixed the interest rate on the
$600 million floating-rate term loan agreement at 5.223 percent until maturity, and for the $332 million
term loan agreement at 6.315 percent until maturity.
There are also a number of interest rate swap agreements, which convert a portion of AirTran
Holdings’ floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate basis for the remaining life of the debt, thus reducing the
impact of interest rate changes on future interest expense and cash flows. Under these agreements,
which expire between 2017 and 2020, it pays fixed rates between 4.35 percent and 6.435 percent and
receives either three-month or six-month LIBOR on the notional values. The notional amount of
outstanding debt related to interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2016, was $166 million. These
interest rate swap arrangements were designated as cash flow hedges as of the acquisition date, and
subsequently de-designated during fourth quarter 2016 as the Company no longer believes these
hedges will be highly effective in offsetting future cash flows. The mark-to-market impact associated
with these hedges for all periods presented was not material.
Credit Risk and Collateral
Credit exposure related to fuel derivative instruments is represented by the fair value of contracts that
are an asset to the Company at the reporting date. At such times, these outstanding instruments expose
111
the Company to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements.
However, the Company has not experienced any significant credit loss as a result of counterparty
nonperformance in the past. To manage credit risk, the Company selects and periodically reviews
counterparties based on credit ratings, limits its exposure with respect to each counterparty, and
monitors the market position of the fuel hedging program and its relative market position with each
counterparty. At December 31, 2016, the Company had agreements with all of its active counterparties
containing early termination rights and/or bilateral collateral provisions whereby security is required if
market risk exposure exceeds a specified threshold amount based on the counterparty credit rating. The
Company also had agreements with counterparties in which cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or
pledged aircraft are required to be posted whenever the net fair value of derivatives associated with
those counterparties exceeds specific thresholds. The following table provides the fair values of fuel
derivatives, amounts posted as collateral, and applicable collateral posting threshold amounts as of
December 31, 2016, at which such postings are triggered:
Counterparty (CP)
(in millions) A B C D E F Other(a) Total
Fair value of fuel
derivatives
$ (298) $ (78) $ 36 $ (5) $ 3 $ 12 $ 4 $ (326)
Cash collateral held
from (by) CP
(279) (33) — — — 11 — (301)
Aircraft collateral
pledged to CP
— —— — —— — —
Letters of credit (LC) — — — — — — — —
Option to substitute
LC for aircraft
(200) to
(600)(h)
(100) to
(500)(d)
N/A (150) to
(550)(d)
(150) to
(550)(d)
N/A
Option to substitute
LC for cash
N/A >(500)(e) (225) to
(275)(e)
(75) to (150)
or >(550)(e)
(125) to (150)
or >(550)(e)
(g)
If credit rating is
investment grade,
fair value of fuel
derivative level at
which:
Cash is provided to
CP
(50) to (200)
or >(600)
(50) to (100)
or >(500)
>(125) (75) to (150)
or >(550)
(125) to
(150) or
>(550)
>(100)
Cash is received
from CP
>50(c) >150(c) >175(c) >250(c) >75(c) >0(c)
Aircraft or cash can
be pledged to CP
as collateral
(200) to
(600)(f)
(100) to
(500)(d)
N/A (150) to
(550)(d)
(150) to
(550)(d)
N/A
If credit rating
is non-investment
grade, fair value
of fuel derivative
level at which:
Cash is provided to
CP
(0) to (200)
or >(600)
(0) to (100)
or >(500)
(b) (0) to (150)
or >(550)
(0) to (150)
or >(550)
(b)
Cash is received
from CP
(b) (b) (b) (b) (b) (b)
Aircraft or cash
can be pledged to
CP as collateral
(200) to
(600)
(100) to
(500)
N/A (150) to
(550)
(150) to
(550)
N/A
(a) Individual counterparties with fair value of fuel derivatives <$3 million.
(b) Cash collateral is provided at 100 percent of fair value of fuel derivative contracts.
112
(c) Thresholds may vary based on changes in credit ratings within investment grade.
(d) The Company has the option of providing cash, letters of credit, or pledging aircraft as collateral.
(e) The Company has the option of providing cash or letters of credit as collateral.
(f) The Company has the option of providing cash or pledging aircraft as collateral.
(g) The Company has the option to substitute letters of credit for 100 percent of cash collateral requirement.
(h) The Company has the option of providing letters of credit in addition to aircraft collateral if the appraised value of the
aircraft does not meet the collateral requirement.
11. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Accounting standards pertaining to fair value measurements establish a three-tier fair value hierarchy,
which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as
observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted
prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as
unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its
own assumptions.
As of December 31, 2016, the Company held certain items that are required to be measured at fair
value on a recurring basis. These included cash equivalents, short-term investments (primarily treasury
bills and certificates of deposit), interest rate derivative contracts, fuel derivative contracts,
and available-for-sale securities. The majority of the Company’s short-term investments consist of
instruments classified as Level 1. However, the Company has certificates of deposit, commercial
paper, and Eurodollar time deposits that are classified as Level 2, due to the fact that the fair value for
these instruments is determined utilizing observable inputs in non-active markets. Other available-forsale
securities primarily consist of investments associated with the Company’s excess benefit plan.
The Company’s fuel and interest rate derivative instruments consist of over-the-counter contracts,
which are not traded on a public exchange. Fuel derivative instruments include swaps, as well as
different types of option contracts, whereas interest rate derivatives consist solely of swap agreements.
See Note 10 for further information on the Company’s derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The fair values of swap contracts are determined based on inputs that are readily available in public
markets or can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets. Therefore, the
Company has categorized these swap contracts as Level 2. The Company’s Treasury Department,
which reports to the Chief Financial Officer, determines the value of option contracts utilizing an
option pricing model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived
from information available in publicly quoted markets, or are provided by financial institutions that
trade these contracts. The option pricing model used by the Company is an industry standard model for
valuing options and is the same model used by the broker/dealer community (i.e., the Company’s
counterparties). The inputs to this option pricing model are the option strike price, underlying price,
risk free rate of interest, time to expiration, and volatility. Because certain inputs used to determine the
fair value of option contracts are unobservable (principally implied volatility), the Company has
categorized these option contracts as Level 3. Volatility information is obtained from external sources,
but is analyzed by the Company for reasonableness and compared to similar information received from
other external sources. The fair value of option contracts considers both the intrinsic value and any
remaining time value associated with those derivatives that have not yet settled. The Company also
considers counterparty credit risk and its own credit risk in its determination of all estimated fair
values. To validate the reasonableness of the Company’s option pricing model, on a monthly basis, the
Company compares its option valuations to third party valuations. If any significant differences were to
113
be noted, they would be researched in order to determine the reason. However, historically, no
significant differences have been noted. The Company has consistently applied these valuation
techniques in all periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available
for the types of derivative contracts it holds.
Included in Other available-for-sale securities are the Company’s investments associated with its deferred
compensation plans, which consist of mutual funds that are publicly traded and for which market prices are
readily available. These plans are non-qualified deferred compensation plans designed to hold contributions
in excess of limits established by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The distribution timing
and payment amounts under these plans are made based on the participant’s distribution election and plan
balance. Assets related to the funded portions of the deferred compensation plans are held in a rabbi trust,
and the Company remains liable to these participants for the unfunded portion of the plans. The Company
records changes in the fair value of the assets in the Company’s earnings.
The following tables present the Company’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis at December 31, 2016, and December 31, 2015:
Fair value measurements at reporting date using:
Description December 31, 2016
Quoted prices in
active markets
for identical assets
(Level 1)
Significant
other observable
inputs
(Level 2)
Significant
unobservable
inputs
(Level 3)
Assets (in millions)
Cash equivalents
Cash equivalents (a) $ 1,344 $ 1,344 $ — $ —
Commercial paper 325 — 325 —
Certificates of deposit 11 — 11 —
Short-term investments:
Treasury bills 1,345 1,345 — —
Certificates of deposit 280 — 280 —
Fuel derivatives:
Swap contracts (c) 42 — 42 —
Option contracts (b) 239 — — 239
Option contracts (c) 163 — — 163
Other available-for-sale
securities 83 83 — —
Total assets $ 3,832 $ 2,772 $ 658 $ 402
Liabilities
Fuel derivatives:
Swap contracts (c) $ (110) $ — $ (110) $ —
Option contracts (b) (96) — — (96)
Option contracts (c) (564) — — (564)
Interest rate derivatives (see
Note 10) (35) — (35) —
Total liabilities $ (805) $ — $ (145) $ (660)
(a) Cash equivalents are primarily composed of money market investments.
(b) In the Consolidated Balance Sheet amounts are presented as a net asset. See Note 10.
(c) In the Consolidated Balance Sheet amounts are presented as a net liability. See Note 10.
114
Fair value measurements at reporting date using:
Description
December 31,
2015
Quoted prices in
active markets
for identical assets
(Level 1)
Significant
other observable
inputs
(Level 2)
Significant
unobservable
inputs
(Level 3)
Assets (in millions)
Cash equivalents
Cash equivalents (a) $ 1,337 $ 1,337 $ — $ —
Commercial paper 200 — 200 —
Certificates of deposit 13 — 13 —
Eurodollar Time Deposits 33 — 33 —
Short-term investments:
Treasury bills 1,248 1,248 — —
Certificates of deposit 220 — 220 —
Interest rate derivatives (see Note 10) 2 — 2 —
Fuel derivatives:
Swap contracts (b) 38 — 38 —
Swap contracts (c) 931 — 931 —
Option contracts (b) 10 — — 10
Option contracts (c) 956 — — 956
Other available-for-sale securities 93 66 — 27
Total assets $ 5,081 $ 2,651 $ 1,437 $ 993
Liabilities
Fuel derivatives:
Swap contracts (c) $ (774) $ — $ (774) $ —
Option contracts (b) (26) — — (26)
Option contracts (c) (2,616) — — (2,616)
Interest rate derivatives (see Note 10) (49) — (49) —
Total liabilities $ (3,465) $ — $ (823) $ (2,642)
(a) Cash equivalents are primarily composed of money market investments.
(b) In the Consolidated Balance Sheet amounts are presented as a net asset. See Note 10.
(c) In the Consolidated Balance Sheet amounts are presented as a net liability. See Note 10.
The Company had no transfers of assets or liabilities between any of the above levels during the years
ended December 31, 2016 or 2015. The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2016 or 2015. The following tables present the
115
Company’s activity for items measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3) for 2016 and 2015:
Fair value measurements using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3)
(in millions)
Fuel
derivatives
Other
securities Total
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ (1,676) $ 27 $ (1,649)
Total gains (losses) (realized or unrealized)
Included in earnings 175 (2) 173
Included in other comprehensive income 201 8 209
Purchases 221 (a) — 221
Sales (61)(a) (33) (94)
Settlements 882 — 882
Balance at December 31, 2016 $ (258) $ — $ (258)
The amount of total gains for the period included in earnings
attributable to the change in unrealized gains or losses
relating to assets still held at December 31, 2016 $ 93 $ — $ 93
(a) The purchase and sale of fuel derivatives are recorded gross based on the structure of the derivative instrument
and whether a contract with multiple derivatives is purchased as a single instrument or separate instruments.
Fair value measurements using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3)
(in millions)
Fuel
derivatives
Other
securities Total
Balance at December 31, 2014 $ (1,091) $ 32 $ (1,059)
Total losses (realized or unrealized)
Included in earnings (646) (1) (647)
Included in other comprehensive income (858) — (858)
Purchases 750 (a) — 750
Sales (196) (a) (4) (200)
Settlements 365 — 365
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ (1,676) $ 27 $ (1,649)
The amount of total losses for the period included in
earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains or
losses relating to assets still held at December 31, 2015 $ (428) $ — $ (428)
(a) The purchase and sale of fuel derivatives are recorded gross based on the structure of the derivative instrument
and whether a contract with multiple derivatives is purchased as a single instrument or separate instruments.
The significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of the Company’s derivative
option contracts is implied volatility. Holding other inputs constant, a significant increase (decrease) in
implied volatility would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement, respectively,
for the Company’s derivative option contracts.
116
The following table presents a range of the unobservable inputs utilized in the fair value measurements
of the Company’s fuel derivatives classified as Level 3 at December 31, 2016:
Quantitative information about Level 3 fair value measurements
Valuation technique Unobservable input Period (by year) Range
Fuel derivatives Option model Implied volatility 2017 16-36%
2018 20-31%
2019 18-24%
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company’s long-term debt (including current
maturities), as well as the applicable fair value hierarchy tier, at December 31, 2016, are presented in
the table below. The fair values of the Company’s publicly held long-term debt are determined based
on inputs that are readily available in public markets or can be derived from information available in
publicly quoted markets; therefore, the Company has categorized these agreements as Level 2. Eight of
the Company’s debt agreements are not publicly held. The Company has determined the estimated fair
value of this debt to be Level 3, as certain inputs used to determine the fair value of these agreements
are unobservable. The Company utilizes indicative pricing from counterparties and a discounted cash
flow method to estimate the fair value of the Level 3 items.
(in millions) Carrying value
Estimated fair
value
Fair value level
hierarchy
5.125% Notes due 2017 $ 301 $ 303 Level 2
French Credit Agreements due 2018 - 2.23% 14 14 Level 3
Fixed-rate 737 Aircraft Notes payable through 2018 - 7.03% 8 8 Level 3
2.75% Notes due 2019 301 306 Level 2
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2019 - 6.315% 106 107 Level 3
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2019 - 4.84% 28 29 Level 3
2.65% Notes due 2020 492 493 Level 2
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2020 - 5.223% 284 284 Level 3
737 Aircraft Notes payable through 2020 206 204 Level 3
Term Loan Agreements payable through 2021 - 7.94% 20 22 Level 3
Pass Through Certificates due 2022 - 6.24% 324 362 Level 2
Term Loan Agreement payable through 2026 - 2.36% 215 215 Level 3
3.00% Notes due 2026 300 284 Level 2
7.375% Debentures due 2027 130 156 Level 2
12. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
Comprehensive income includes changes in the fair value of certain financial derivative instruments
that qualify for hedge accounting, unrealized gains and losses on certain investments, and actuarial
117
gains/losses arising from the Company’s postretirement benefit obligation. A rollforward of the
amounts included in AOCI, net of taxes, is shown below for 2016 and 2015:
(in millions)
Fuel
derivatives
Interest
rate
derivatives
Defined
benefit plan
items Other
Deferred
tax
impact
Accumulated other
comprehensive
income (loss)
Balance at December 31, 2014 $ (1,177) $ (45) $ 41 $ 8 $ 435 $ (738)
Changes in fair value (867) (5) (19) (2) 329 (564)
Reclassification to earnings 378 20 — — (147) 251
Balance at December 31, 2015 $ (1,666) $ (30) $ 22 $ 6 $ 617 $ (1,051)
Changes in fair value 194 (3) (36) 14 (63) 106
Reclassification to earnings 973 15 — — (366) 622
Balance at December 31, 2016 $ (499) $ (18) $ (14) $ 20 $ 188 $ (323)
The following table illustrates the significant amounts reclassified out of each component of AOCI for
the year ended December 31, 2016:
Year ended December 31, 2016
(in millions)
AOCI components
Amounts reclassified
from AOCI
Affected line item in the
Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income
Unrealized loss on fuel derivative
instruments $ 973 Fuel and oil expense
360 Less: Tax expense
$ 613 Net of tax
Unrealized loss on interest rate derivative
instruments $ 15 Interest expense
6 Less: Tax expense
$ 9 Net of tax
Total reclassifications for the period $ 622 Net of tax
13. EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS
Defined Contribution Plans
Southwest has defined contribution plans covering substantially all of its Employees. Contributions
under all defined contribution plans are primarily based on Employee compensation and performance
of the Company. The Company sponsors Employee savings plans under section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which include Company matching contributions. In addition, the
Southwest Airlines Co. ProfitSharing Plan (ProfitSharing Plan) is a defined contribution plan to which
the Company may contribute a percentage of its eligible pre-tax profits, as defined, on an annual basis.
No Employee contributions to the ProfitSharing Plan are allowed.
118
Amounts associated with the Company’s defined contribution plans expensed in 2016, 2015, and 2014,
reflected as a component of Salaries, wages, and benefits, were $937 million, $945 million, and
$644 million, respectively.
Postretirement Benefit Plans
The Company provides postretirement benefits to qualified retirees in the form of medical and dental
coverage. Employees must meet minimum levels of service and age requirements as set forth by the
Company, or as specified in collective-bargaining agreements with specific workgroups. Employees
meeting these requirements, as defined, may use accrued unused sick time to pay for medical and
dental premiums from the age of retirement until age 65.
The following table shows the change in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) for
the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015:
(in millions) 2016 2015
APBO at beginning of period $ 201 $ 169
Service cost 13 11
Interest cost 9 7
Benefits paid (6) (6)
Actuarial loss 38 20
Plan amendments 1 —
APBO at end of period $ 256 $ 201
All plans are unfunded, and benefits are paid as they become due. Estimated future benefit payments
expected to be paid are $7 million in 2017, $8 million in 2018, $9 million in 2019, $10 million in 2020,
$12 million in 2021, and $90 million for the next five years thereafter.
The funded status (the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit
obligations) of the Company’s consolidated benefit plans are recognized in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, with a corresponding adjustment to AOCI. The following table reconciles the funded status of
the plans to the accrued postretirement benefit cost recognized in Other non-current liabilities on the
Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016 and 2015.
(in millions) 2016 2015
Funded status $ (256) $ (201)
Unrecognized net actuarial (gain)/loss 7 (31)
Unrecognized prior service cost 7 9
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (14) 22
Cost recognized on Consolidated Balance Sheet $ (256) $ (201)
119
The consolidated periodic postretirement benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015,
and 2014, included the following:
(in millions) 2016 2015 2014
Service cost $ 13 $ 11 $ 10
Interest cost 9 7 7
Amortization of prior service cost 3 3 3
Recognized actuarial gain — (3) (4)
Settlements — — (1)
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost $ 25 $ 18 $ 15
Unrecognized prior service cost is expensed using a straight-line amortization of the cost over the
average future service of Employees expected to receive benefits under the plans. Actuarial gains are
amortized utilizing the minimum amortization method. The following actuarial assumptions were used
to account for the Company’s postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014:
2016 2015 2014
Weighted-average discount rate 4.25% 4.50% 4.10%
Assumed healthcare cost trend rate (1) 7.08% 7.08% 6.88%
(1) The assumed healthcare cost trend rate is assumed to remain at 7.08% for 2017, then decline gradually
to 5.19% by 2027 and remain level thereafter.
The assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the
consolidated postretirement plans. A one percent change in all healthcare cost trend rates used in
measuring the APBO at December 31, 2016, would have the following effects:
(in millions) 1% increase 1% decrease
Increase (decrease) in total service and interest costs $ 4 $ (3)
Increase (decrease) in the APBO $ 36 $ (31)
The selection of a discount rate is made annually and is selected by the Company based upon
comparison of the expected future cash flows associated with the Company’s future payments under its
consolidated postretirement obligations to a yield curve created using high quality bonds that closely
match those expected future cash flows. This rate decreased during 2016 due to market conditions. The
assumed healthcare trend rate is also reviewed at least annually and is determined based upon both
historical experience with the Company’s healthcare benefits paid and expectations of how those
trends may or may not change in future years.
120
14. INCOME TAXES
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax
purposes. The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2016 and 2015, are as
follows:
(in millions) 2016 2015
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES:
Accelerated depreciation $ 4,726 $ 4,429
Other 134 62
Total deferred tax liabilities 4,860 4,491
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS:
Fuel derivative instruments 233 750
Construction obligation 402 289
Accrued employee benefits 451 541
Other 400 421
Total deferred tax assets 1,486 2,001
Net deferred tax liability $ 3,374 $ 2,490
The provision for income taxes is composed of the following:
(in millions) 2016 2015 2014
CURRENT:
Federal $ 778 $ 1,292 $ 203
State 69 114 29
Total current 847 1,406 232
DEFERRED:
Federal 426 (97) 421
State 30 (11) 27
Total deferred 456 (108) 448
$ 1,303 $ 1,298 $ 680
The effective tax rate on income before income taxes differed from the federal income tax statutory
rate for the following reasons:
(in millions) 2016 2015 2014
Tax at statutory U.S. tax rates $ 1,241 $ 1,218 $ 636
State income taxes, net of federal benefit 64 66 37
Other, net (2) 14 7
Total income tax provision $ 1,303 $ 1,298 $ 680
The only periods subject to examination for the Company’s federal tax return are the 2015 and 2016
tax years.
121
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Southwest Airlines Co.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Southwest Airlines Co. as of
December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive
income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2016. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Southwest Airlines Co. at December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2016 in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has changed its method
of accounting for its co-brand credit card agreement and applied the amendments to the FASB
Accounting Standard Codification resulting from Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-13, Multiple
Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, effective July 1, 2015.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Southwest Airlines Co.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework) and our
report dated February 7, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Dallas, Texas
February 7, 2017
122
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Southwest Airlines Co.
We have audited Southwest Airlines Co.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework) (the COSO
criteria). Southwest Airlines Co.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying “Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting.” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained
in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only
in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, Southwest Airlines Co. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of Southwest Airlines Co. as of December 31,
2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016
and our report dated February 7, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Dallas, Texas
February 7, 2017
123
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
(unaudited)
Three months ended
(in millions except per share amounts) March 31 June 30 Sept. 30 Dec. 31
2016
Operating revenues (a) $ 4,826 $ 5,384 $ 5,139 $ 5,076
Operating income 944 1,276 695 846
Income before income taxes 816 1,304 618 809
Net income (b) 513 820 388 522
Net income per share, basic (a)(b) 0.80 1.30 0.63 0.85
Net income per share, diluted (a)(b) 0.79 1.28 0.62 0.84
March 31 June 30 Sept. 30 Dec. 31
2015
Operating revenues (a) $ 4,414 $ 5,111 $ 5,318 $ 4,977
Operating income 780 1,085 1,225 1,026
Income before income taxes 723 977 933 847
Net income 453 608 584 536
Net income per share, basic (a) 0.67 0.91 0.89 0.83
Net income per share, diluted (a) 0.66 0.90 0.88 0.82
(a) Includes the impact of the Agreement with Chase and the resulting required change in accounting
methodology. The impact of this change during third quarter and fourth quarter 2015 resulted in increases to
Operating revenue of approximately $303 million and $124 million, respectively, and increased Basic and
Diluted net income per share by approximately $.24 in third quarter 2015 and by approximately $.10 in
fourth quarter 2015. The impact of this change resulted in an increase to Operating revenue during first quarter
2016 of approximately $115 million and increased Basic and Diluted net income per share by approximately
$.10 and $.09, respectively. The impact of this change resulted in an increase to Operating revenue during second
quarter 2016 of approximately $137 million, and increased Basic and Diluted net income per share by
approximately $.12 and $.11, respectively. See Note 1 for further detail.
(b) During second quarter 2016, the Company early adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee ShareBased
Payment Accounting, with an effective date as of January 1, 2016. The prospective method of adoption of
this standard resulted in the recognition of $2 million of excess tax benefits to the Company’s income tax provision
for the six months ended June 30, 2016, but which were related to first quarter 2016. For this presentation and in
future periods in which first quarter 2016 results are reported, these amounts are reflected in the appropriate period.
The adoption had no impact to net income per share amounts. See Note 2 for further information.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. The Company maintains disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act (the “Exchange Act”))
124
designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by the Company
in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and
reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. These include controls and
procedures designed to ensure that this information is accumulated and communicated to the
Company’s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management, with the
participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the
effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2016. Based on
this evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded
that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2016, at the
reasonable assurance level.
Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Management of the
Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act). The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process, under the supervision of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable
assurance of achieving their control objectives.
Management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2016. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal
Control - Integrated Framework (2013 Framework). Based on this evaluation, management, with the
participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that, as
of December 31, 2016, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective.
Ernst & Young, LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm who audited the Company’s
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K, has issued a report on the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting, which is included herein.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. There were no changes in the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the
quarter ended December 31, 2016, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. Other Information
None.
125
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance
Directors and Executive Officers
The information required by this Item 10 regarding the Company’s directors will be set forth under the
heading “Proposal 1 — Election of Directors” in the Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2017 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. The information required by this
Item 10 regarding the Company’s executive officers is set forth under the heading “Executive Officers
of the Registrant” in Part I of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 16(a) Compliance
The information required by this Item 10 regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
will be set forth under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the
Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.
Corporate Governance
Except as set forth in the following paragraph, the remaining information required by this Item 10 will
be set forth under the heading “Corporate Governance” in the Proxy Statement for the Company’s
2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller. The Company’s Code of Ethics, as well
as its Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of its Audit, Compensation, and Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committees, are available on the Company’s website,
www.southwest.com. Copies of these documents are also available upon request to Investor Relations,
Southwest Airlines Co., P.O. Box 36611, Dallas, TX 75235. The Company intends to disclose any
amendments to, or waivers from, its Code of Ethics that apply to the Company’s principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller on the Company’s
website, www.southwest.com, under the “About Southwest” caption, promptly following the date of
any such amendment or waiver.
Item 11. Executive Compensation
The information required by this Item 11 will be set forth under the headings “Compensation of
Executive Officers” and “Compensation of Directors” in the Proxy Statement for the Company’s
2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters
Except as set forth below regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation
plans, the information required by this Item 12 will be set forth under the heading “Voting Securities
and Principal Shareholders” in the Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2017 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
126
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
The following table provides information as of December 31, 2016, regarding compensation plans
(including individual compensation arrangements) under which equity securities of the Company are
authorized for issuance.
Equity Compensation Plan Information
Plan Category
Number of Securities
to be Issued Upon
Exercise of
Outstanding
Options,
Warrants, and
Rights
(a)
Weighted-Average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding Options,
Warrants, and
Rights
(b)
Number of Securities
Remaining Available for
Future Issuance Under
Equity Compensation
Plans (Excluding
Securities Reflected
in Column (a))
(c)
Equity Compensation Plans
Approved by Security Holders 1,748,323 (1) $ 9.02 (2) 31,456,389 (3)
Equity Compensation Plans not
Approved by Security Holders 4,300 $ 10.10 —
Total 1,752,623 $ 9.02 (2) 31,456,389
(1) Includes 308,913 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and
1,439,410 restricted share units settleable in shares of the Company’s common stock.
(2) The weighted-average exercise price does not take into account the restricted share units discussed in
footnote (1) above because the restricted share units do not have an exercise price upon vesting.
(3) Of these shares, (i) 9,373,779 shares remained available for issuance under the Company’s taxqualified
employee stock purchase plan; and (ii) 22,082,610 shares remained available for issuance
under the Company’s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan in connection with the exercise of stock options and
stock appreciation rights, the settlement of awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units, and
phantom shares, and the grant of unrestricted shares of common stock; however, no more than
1,237,899 shares remain available for grant in connection with awards of unrestricted shares of
common stock, stock-settled phantom shares, and awards to non-Employee members of the Board.
These shares are in addition to the shares reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding awards included
in column (a).
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the material features of
the above plans. Each of the above plans provides that the number of shares with respect to which
options may be granted, the number of shares of common stock subject to an outstanding option, and
the number of restricted share units granted shall be proportionately adjusted in the event of a
subdivision or consolidation of shares or the payment of a stock dividend on common stock, and the
purchase price per share of outstanding options shall be proportionately revised.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by this Item 13 will be set forth under the heading “Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence” in the Proxy Statement for the Company’s
2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
The information required by this Item 14 will be set forth under the heading “Relationship with
Independent Auditors” in the Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2017 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
127
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a) 1. Financial Statements:
The financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data above are
filed as part of this annual report.
2. Financial Statement Schedules:
There are no financial statement schedules filed as part of this annual report, since the required
information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto, or the
circumstances requiring inclusion of such schedules are not present.
3. Exhibits:
3.1 Restated Certificate of Formation of the Company, effective May 18, 2012
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 (File No. 1-7259)).
3.2 Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, effective November 17, 2016
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed November 21, 2016 (File No. 1-7259)).
4.1 Specimen certificate representing common stock of the Company (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-7259)).
4.2 Indenture dated as of February 14, 2005, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A., Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 14, 2005 (File
No. 1-7259)).
4.3 Indenture dated as of September 17, 2004, between the Company and Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed October 30, 2002 (File No. 333-100861)).
4.4 Indenture dated as of February 25, 1997, between the Company and U.S.
Trust Company of Texas, N.A. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996
(File No. 1-7259)).
The Company is not filing any other instruments evidencing any indebtedness because
the total amount of securities authorized under any single such instrument does not
exceed 10 percent of its total consolidated assets. Copies of such instruments will be
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
10.1 Purchase Agreement No. 1810, dated January 19, 1994, between The Boeing Company
and the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-7259));
Supplemental Agreement No. 1 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 2, 3, and 4 (incorporated by
128
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 5, 6, and
7 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreements Nos. 8, 9, and 10 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 11, 12, 13, and 14 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2000 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements
Nos. 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2002 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements
Nos. 25, 26, 27, 28, and 29 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 (File No. 1-7259));
Supplemental Agreements Nos. 30, 31, 32, and 33 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 34, 35, 36, 37,
and 38 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreements Nos. 39 and 40 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 41 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 42, 43, and 44
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreement No. 45 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 (File No. 1-7259));
Supplemental Agreements Nos. 46 and 47 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 48 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2006 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 49 and 50
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreement No. 51 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (File No. 1-7259));
Supplemental Agreement No. 52 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 53 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2007 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 54 and 55
(incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 56 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to Southwest’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 57, 58, and 59
(incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3, respectively, to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 60 (incorporated by reference to
129
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2008 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 61 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2008 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements
Nos. 62 and 63 (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 64 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2010 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 65 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2010 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 66
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreement No. 67 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(a) to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 68 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1(b) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 69 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1(c) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2010 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No.
70 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(d) to the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreements Nos. 71 and 72 (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2,
respectively, to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2011 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 73 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2011 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 74
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreement No. 75 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(a) to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (File
No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 76 and 77 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos.
78 and 79 (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 80 and 81 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreements Nos. 82 and 83 (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2,
respectively, to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2013 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 84 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 2013 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 85
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(a) to the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreement No. 86 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 87 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2014 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 88 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
130
quarter ended September 30, 2014 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements
Nos. 89 and 90 (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1(a) and 10.1(b), respectively,
to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 91 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2015 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Letter Agreement No.
1810-LA-1501773 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015
(File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 92 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1(a) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2015 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 93 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2016 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 94
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental
Agreements Nos. 95, 96, and 97 (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, and
10.3, respectively, to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2016 (File No. 1-7259)). (1)
10.1(a) Supplemental Agreement No. 98 to Purchase Agreement No. 1810, dated January 19,
1994, between The Boeing Company and the Company. (1)
10.1(b) Supplemental Agreement No. 99 to Purchase Agreement No. 1810, dated January 19,
1994, between The Boeing Company and the Company. (1)
10.2 Form of Amended and Restated Executive Service Recognition Plan Executive
Employment Agreement between the Company and certain Officers of the Company
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.3 Letter Agreement between Southwest Airlines Co. and Gary C. Kelly, effective as of
February 1, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2011 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.4 Southwest Airlines Co. Amended and Restated Severance Plan for Directors (as amended
and restated effective May 19, 2009) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 (File
No. 1-7259)).
10.5 Southwest Airlines Co. Outside Director Incentive Plan (as amended and restated
effective May 16, 2007) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 (File No. 1-7259)).
10.6 Southwest Airlines Co. 2002 SWAPIA Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed
October 30, 2002 (File No. 333-100862)).
10.7 Southwest Airlines Co. Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed May 18, 2015 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.8 Southwest Airlines Co. 2007 Equity Incentive Plan Form of Notice of Grant and Terms
and Conditions for Stock Option Grant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007
(File No. 1-7259)). (2)
131
10.9 Southwest Airlines Co. Excess Benefit Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32
to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008
(File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.10 Amendment No. 1 to the Southwest Airlines Co. Excess Benefit Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2008 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.11 Amendment No. 2 to the Southwest Airlines Co. Excess Benefit Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2008 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.12 Amended and Restated Southwest Airlines Co. 2005 Excess Benefit Plan (as amended
and restated, effective as of March 1, 2016) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2016 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.13 Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and its Directors
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed January 22, 2009 (File No. 1-7259)).
10.14 Southwest Airlines Co. Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan Form of
Notice of Grant and Terms and Conditions for Restricted Stock Unit grants
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.15 $1,000,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility Agreement among the Company, the Banks
party thereto, Barclays Bank PLC, as Syndication Agent, Bank of America, N.A., BNP
Paribas, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., U.S. Bank
National Association, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Documentation Agents,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Administrative Agents, and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Paying Agent, dated as of August 3, 2016
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed August 9, 2016 (File No. 1-7259)).
10.16 Purchase Agreement No. 3729 and Aircraft General Terms Agreement, dated
December 13, 2011, between The Boeing Company and the Company (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2011 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreements Nos. 1 and 2
(incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.3 and 10.4, respectively, to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013 (File No. 1-7259));
Supplemental Agreement No. 3 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27(a) to the
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 (File
No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 4 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.18(a) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2015 (File No. 1-7259)); Supplemental Agreement No. 5 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2016 (File No. 1-7259)). (1)
10.17 Southwest Airlines Co. Senior Executive Short Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
January 30, 2013 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
10.18 Southwest Airlines Co. Deferred Compensation Plan for Senior Leadership and NonEmployee
Members of the Southwest Airlines Co. Board of Directors (as amended and
restated, effective as of March 1, 2016) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to
the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2016 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
132
10.19 Southwest Airlines Co. Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan Form of
Notice of Grant and Terms and Conditions for Performance-Based Restricted Stock
Unit grants (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014 (File No. 1-7259)). (2)
21 Subsidiaries of the Company.
23 Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
31.1 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.
31.2 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.
32 Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. (3)
101.INS XBRL Instance Document
101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
101.LAB XBRL Extension Labels Linkbase Document
101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
(1) Pursuant to 17 CFR 240.24b-2, confidential information has been omitted and has been filed separately
with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Application filed
with the Commission.
(2) Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
(3) This exhibit is being furnished rather than filed and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into
any filing, in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
A copy of each exhibit may be obtained at a price of 15 cents per page, $10.00 minimum order, by
writing to: Investor Relations, Southwest Airlines Co., P.O. Box 36611, Dallas, Texas 75235-1611.
133
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
February 7, 2017 By /s/ Tammy Romo
Tammy Romo
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial
Officer (On behalf of the Registrant and in her
capacity as Principal Financial and Accounting
Officer)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on February 7, 2017, on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.
Signature Title
/S/ GARY C. KELLY
Gary C. Kelly
Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
/S/ TAMMY ROMO
Tammy Romo
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial & Accounting Officer)
/S/ RON RICKS
Ron Ricks
Vice Chairman of the Board
/S/ DAVID W. BIEGLER
David W. Biegler
Director
/S/ J. VERONICA BIGGINS
J. Veronica Biggins
Director
/S/ DOUGLAS H. BROOKS
Douglas H. Brooks
Director
/S/ WILLIAM H. CUNNINGHAM
William H. Cunningham
Director
/S/ JOHN G. DENISON
John G. Denison
Director
/S/ THOMAS W. GILLIGAN
Thomas W. Gilligan
Director
/S/ GRACE D. LIEBLEIN
Grace D. Lieblein
Director
/S/ NANCY B. LOEFFLER
Nancy B. Loeffler
Director
/S/ JOHN T. MONTFORD
John T. Montford
Director
134
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DAVID W. BIEGLER
Former Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief
Executive Officer
Southcross Energy Partners GP, LLC (midstream
natural gas company)
Retired Vice Chairman of TXU Corp.
Audit Committee, Compensation Committee (Chair),
and Safety and Compliance Oversight Committee
J. VERONICA BIGGINS
Managing Partner
Diversified Search LLC (executive and board search
firm)
Compensation Committee and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee
DOUGLAS H. BROOKS
Former Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief
Executive Officer
Brinker International, Inc. (casual dining restaurant
company)
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
and Safety and Compliance Oversight Committee
WILLIAM H. CUNNINGHAM, PHD
(Presiding Director)
James L. Bayless Chair for Free Enterprise
The University of Texas at Austin Red McCombs
School of Business
Former Chancellor of The University of Texas System
Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee (Chair), and Executive
Committee
JOHN G. DENISON
Former Chairman of the Board
Global Aero Logistics Inc. (diversified passenger
airline)
Audit Committee, Safety and Compliance Oversight
Committee (Chair), and Executive Committee
THOMAS W. GILLIGAN, PHD
Tad and Diane Taube Director of the Hoover
Institution at Stanford University
Audit Committee and Safety and Compliance
Oversight Committee
GARY C. KELLY
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Southwest Airlines Co.
Executive Committee (Chair)
GRACE D. LIEBLEIN
Former Vice President, Global Quality
General Motors Corporation (automobile company)
Compensation Committee and Safety
and Compliance Oversight Committee
NANCY B. LOEFFLER
Consultant for Frost Bank and member of the Frost
Bank Advisory Board
Long-time advocate of volunteerism
Compensation Committee and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee
JOHN T. MONTFORD, JD
President and Chief Executive Officer
JTM Consulting, LLC
Audit Committee (Chair), Compensation Committee,
and Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee
RON RICKS
Vice Chairman of the Board
Southwest Airlines Co.
Executive Committee and Safety
and Compliance Oversight Committee
HONORARY DESIGNATIONS
HERBERT D. KELLEHER
Chairman Emeritus
Southwest Airlines Co.
COLLEEN C. BARRETT
President Emeritus
Southwest Airlines Co.
CORPORATE INFORMATION
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO. GENERAL OFFICES
P.O. Box 36611
2702 Love Field Drive
Dallas, TX 75235
Telephone: 214-792-4000
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
A copy of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, as
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, is
included herein. Other financial information can be found on
Southwest’s web site (southwest.com) or may be obtained
without charge by writing or calling:
Southwest Airlines Co.
Investor Relations, HDQ-6IR
P.O. Box 36611
2702 Love Field Drive
Dallas, Texas 75235
Telephone: 214-792-4908
ANNUAL MEETING
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Southwest Airlines
Co. will be held at 10:00 a.m. on May 17, 2017, at the
Kimpton Hotel Palomar Phoenix located at 2 East Jefferson
Street, Phoenix, Arizona 85004.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
New York Stock Exchange Ticker Symbol: LUV
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
Registered shareholder inquiries regarding stock transfers,
address changes, lost stock certificates, dividend payments
and reinvestments, direct stock purchases, or account
consolidation should be directed to:
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
866-877-6206
651-450-4064
www.shareowneronline.com
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM
Ernst & Young LLP
Dallas, Texas
2016 SOUTHWEST AIRLINES ONE REPORT
To illustrate our steadfast focus on a triple bottom line – our Performance, our People, and our Planet – we have highlighted
these three elements of sustainability in an interactive, electronic publication for our eighth annual Southwest Airlines One
Report. Our award-winning integrated One Report combines financial, corporate responsibility, and environmental reporting
into one comprehensive report, using the Global Reporting Initiative as a guide, an internationally recognized standard for
sustainability reporting. You can read the 2016 Southwest Airlines One Report at http://www.southwest.com/citizenship or
http://www.southwestairlinesinvestorrelations.com/financials.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Our Letter to Shareholders contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Specific forward-looking statements
include, without limitation, statements related to (i) the Company’s fleet plans, strategies, and expectations, including its fleet
modernization initiatives, and the Company’s related financial and operational expectations; (ii) the Company’s financial
position, outlook, goals, strategies, and projected results of operations, including specific factors expected to impact the
Company’s results of operations; (iii) the Company’s plans and expectations with respect to its new reservation system, and
the Company’s related multi-faceted financial and operational expectations and opportunities; (iv) the Company’s
construction initiatives and related operational expectations; (v) the Company’s growth plans, strategies, and opportunities,
including the Company’s network and capacity plans, opportunities, and expectations; (vi) the Company’s expectations and
goals with respect to returning value to Shareholders; and (vii) the Company’s Vision. These statements involve risks,
uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to vary materially
from those expressed in or indicated by them. Factors include, among others, (i) changes in demand for the Company’s
services and other changes in consumer behavior; (ii) the impact of economic conditions, fuel prices, actions of competitors
(including without limitation pricing, scheduling, and capacity and network decisions and consolidation and alliance
activities), and other factors beyond the Company’s control, on the Company’s business decisions, plans, and strategies;
(iii) the Company’s dependence on third parties, in particular with respect to its fleet, technology, and construction plans;
(iv) the Company’s ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain the necessary information technology
systems and infrastructure to support its operations and initiatives; (v) the impact of governmental regulations and other
governmental actions related to the Company’s operations; (vi) the Company’s ability to timely and effectively prioritize its
initiatives and related expenditures; (vii) the impact of labor matters on the Company’s business decisions, plans, strategies,
and costs; and (viii) other factors, as described in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
including the detailed factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016.