SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.

2016 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

To our Shareholders:

Following record years in 2014 and 2015, 2016 was another record year. It is

remarkable that we were able to sustain, and in some cases, improve upon the dramatic
results achieved in 2015. The foundation was laid with strategic initiatives that
transformed Southwest during the five years ended 2014. Our results were further
boosted by the significant reduction in energy prices, generally range-bound in the
$45-$55 a barrel range for Brent crude oil. The result was another year of record traffic,
record load factors, record revenues, record profits, and a record year-end stock price
(LUV). For the second year in a row, and for only the second time in our history, our
annual pre-tax return on invested capital (ROIC)1 was 30 percent or better. It was our 44th
consecutive year of profitability, a record unmatched in the domestic airline industry, and
a continued display of our leadership in corporate America.

Our 2016 net income was a record $2.24 billion, or $3.55 per diluted share, 2.9
percent and 8.6 percent higher than 2015, respectively. Excluding special items1, our
record 2016 earnings were $2.37 billion, or $3.75 per diluted share, 0.6 percent and 6.5
percent higher than a year ago, respectively.

Total operating revenues topped $20 billion for the first time, up 3.1 percent

versus a year ago. On the heels of 2015’s healthy year-over-year available seat mile
(capacity) growth of 7.2 percent, our 2016 year-over-year capacity growth slowed to 5.7
percent, as several of our strategic growth opportunities were realized (Dallas Love Field;
Washington Reagan National; Houston Hobby International). Our goal was to grow
revenues in line, or better, than capacity versus a year ago. Operating revenues per
available seat mile fell slightly, by 1.6 percent, due to significant low fare competition and
industry domestic capacity growth outpacing the sluggish economic growth. As a result,
our average passenger fare fell 3.7 percent versus a year ago. Given that jet fuel prices
fell further, year-over-year, the net profit result was still quite exceptional.

We were not planning to add any new cities in 2016; however, as I reported in last
year’s Annual Report to Shareholders, slots became available in Long Beach, California,
and flights resumed between the United States and Cuba. We reacted swiftly to these
opportunities and launched service to Long Beach Airport; Varadero, Cuba; Havana,
Cuba (our 100th destination); and Santa Clara, Cuba. We serve Long Beach with
short-haul flights in California and Cuba from Ft. Lauderdale and Tampa. We also
launched service from Los Angeles International Airport to Cancun, Puerto Vallarta, and
Los Cabos, Mexico. Additional routes and frequencies within our existing network
rounded out the balance of our 2016 expansion. It was another successful year in
network development.

1 See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and related reconciliations included in the accompanying
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, for additional information on ROIC and special items.

Our operating expenses grew slightly faster than capacity. Average 2016 jet fuel

prices declined 7.2 percent on an “economic basis” from a year ago2. Operating
expenses per available seat mile (CASM) increased 0.4 percent, year-over-year.
Excluding fuel and oil expense and special items, CASM increased just 1.6 percent,
year-over-year.

Our cash flow from operations was a record $4.29 billion, and our free cash flow3

was a record $2.25 billion. Our financial position strengthened, sustaining our solid
investment grade credit ratings with all three credit rating agencies. Debt to total capital
(including aircraft leases) declined to 32.5 percent as of year-end 2016. Our liquidity
increased, as well, with year-end cash and short-term investments of $3.3 billion plus our
fully-available $1.0 billion bank line of credit. We returned a record $1.97 billion to
Shareholders in 2016, through $222 million in dividends and $1.75 billion in share
repurchases. In May 2016, in recognition of our exceptionally strong results, our Board of
Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program and increased the quarterly
dividend by 33 percent to $.10 per share.

We ended the year with 723 aircraft in our all-Boeing 737 (B737) fleet. Currently,
our firm aircraft commitments and options would grow the fleet to 750 airplanes by year-
end 2018. We have several significant fleet events planned for 2017. First, we are the
launch customer with Boeing for the B737-8 (MAX) aircraft. We currently plan to launch
this new airplane in commercial service October 1, 2017, and acquire a total of 14 for the
year. Second, we plan to retire the 79 remaining B737-300 (Classic) airplanes in our fleet
between now and October 1, 2017. Finally, we plan to acquire 39 new B737-800 (NG)
aircraft this year. Due to the accelerated retirement of the Classics, we plan to end 2017
with 703 aircraft in our fleet, down from the 723 to start this year. By the end of 2018, all
retired Classics will have been replaced with new deliveries from Boeing. The Classics
have served us well, but with Boeing’s support, along with expected reduced
maintenance, fuel consumption, and out-of-service time, we expect a substantial financial
benefit, prospectively, once the Classics are retired. This is an important part of our fleet
modernization initiative, which has been underway since 2011. It is exciting to see these
long-held plans come together in 2017!

Another long-term effort scheduled to come to fruition in 2017 is the completion

and deployment of our new Amadeus Altéa reservation system on May 9, 2017. Our
current reservation system dates back to the 1980s. It, too, has served us well, but it is
not well suited to our current or future needs. The effort to replace it is significant and
strategic, and has been years in the making. We announced the first phase of the
deployment into production in December 2016. The project is on track, and we look
forward to the next important milestone in this effort. Once implemented, the system
provides the foundation for future planned releases with further enhancements. We
expect to derive benefits ranging from improved Customer Experiences to improved
revenue management. We look forward to giving our Employees better tools that allow us
to better serve our Customers and Shareholders.

2 See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and related reconciliation included in the accompanying Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, for additional information on economic fuel costs.
3Free cash flow is calculated as operating cash flows of $4.3 billion less capital expenditures of $2.0 billion less assets
constructed for others of $109 million plus reimbursements for assets constructed for others of $107 million.

Another significant long-term effort scheduled for 2017 is the completion of a new
five-gate international terminal at the Ft Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (FLL),
slated for June 2017. Coincident with the opening is the launch of new international
service at FLL by Southwest Airlines. Currently, we serve just The Bahamas and Cuba
from FLL, but plan to add service to Belize, Jamaica, and Mexico along with our newest
destination, Grand Cayman. This is a much-anticipated and much-needed enhancement
to our FLL franchise.

Overall, our outlook continues to be upbeat. Once again, we are off to a very
strong start to the year, in terms of operational reliability, Customer satisfaction, and
travel demand. There appear to be high expectations for tax reform, regulatory reform,
and air traffic control modernization. In turn, there appear to be high expectations for
domestic GDP growth. We welcome all of that. In the meantime, while economic growth
is still lackluster, energy prices are stable at moderate prices, and travel demand is
strong in a very competitive environment. We are positioned and poised to compete
vigorously and well. With the fleet plan I outlined previously, we currently plan to grow our
capacity approximately 3.5 percent in 2017, split roughly two-thirds to our domestic
network and the remainder to international growth. In addition to adding Grand Cayman
to our route map, we are consolidating our Ohio cities by closing operations at Akron-
Canton Airport and adding flights at nearby Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. We
are scheduled to begin service at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport
(which, admittedly, has been conspicuous in its absence from our expansive route
network), and close operations at nearby Dayton International Airport to accommodate it.
Much has changed in these Ohio airports, competitively, over the last five to six years,
and these moves will position us better. It is never easy to close a location, but we will
continue to offer service to Customers in those two markets via Cleveland and Cincinnati.

We have lived through a remarkable period, be it the last 5 years, 10 years, or
more than 15 since 9/11. Our People have worked extraordinarily hard to weather the
storms, transform Southwest, and still serve our Customers and Shareholders well. They
have done that. From 2001 through 2012, there were some tough, lean years. But, our
People never faltered. No annual losses. No bankruptcies. No layoffs. No massive
reduction in service. Instead, Southwest stayed profitable, job secure, and growing—
throughout. Now, our People, our Customers, and our Shareholders are reaping the
benefits from those years of hard work. Because of our People, Southwest is well-
prepared to compete aggressively for Customers’ business and loyalty. Southwest is
committed to provide Shareholder returns. And, Southwest is well-prepared for tougher
times, whether it be from economic weakness, energy price spikes, or brutal competition.
Our People have us better prepared than ever, in fact. And, we have opportunities to
further improve our already excellent operations, our outstanding Customer Service, and
our expansive route map.

As I said last year, our Purpose is to connect People to what’s important in their
lives with friendly, reliable, low-cost air travel. We take great care of our Employees, so
they can take great care of our Customers. If we do both well—keep our service levels
high and our fares low—we can take great care of our Shareholders. And, we have.

This is now the 23rd consecutive year that Southwest has been named to

Fortune’s list of World’s Most Admired Companies, coming in at #8. We’re proud of that.

